Title: Deployment Team/Meetings/2008-09-24/Log
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Deployment_Team/Meetings/2008-09-24/Log
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<walter>
I realize we didn't publicize the deployment meeting
nteon has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
nteon (n=nteon@cpe-74-79-168-197.twcny.res.rr.com) has joined #sugar-meeting
aa has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
dirakx (n=rafael@190.156.125.94) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
hey rafael
<walter>
I don't think we did a good job of reminding people of this meeting.
<dirakx>
walter: hi..
<dirakx>
yes i think is better to do it next week?
nteon has quit ()
<dirakx>
walter:  i mean in order to get more people involved.
<walter>
Yes. Next Wednesday, same time?
<dirakx>
yep..
erikos (n=erikos@e178217046.adsl.alicedsl.de) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
I'll try to remember to advertise on the weekend Digest
<walter>
hey Simon
<dirakx>
walter i'll also write an emailk about it..
<erikos>
walter: hey - do we have a meeting today?
<walter>
we were just discussing this. We didn't get the word out, so we don't have a quorum.
<walter>
we'll postpone until next week.
<erikos>
oh ok, would it have been deployments one?
<dirakx>
erikos: yep
<erikos>
aha ok
<dirakx>
i think it's better, we are just starting to get things together ;)
<walter>
Meanwhile, I am in the midst of writing a grant proposal... for outreach, including some needed engineering...
<tomeu>
nice
<dirakx>
walter: in the same page we are using for that?
<walter>
dirakx: I don't understand the question
<dirakx>
walter: doh i misunderstood, that sorry
<walter>
Well, I am going to get back to writing. I think I need to really focus on getting lots of applications in play ASAP.
<tomeu>
;)
<tomeu>
let the paper flow!
<walter>
One question on the application I am writing now is about any images or multimedia we might have.
<walter>
I wonder if the video we put together for the MOMA exhibit would work.
<walter>
I'll have to ask Eben.
<walter>
Any other thoughts?
<tomeu>
walter: he's in #sugar now
<tomeu>
other than what is in the wiki and manuals, no
<walter>
Also, another idea I had that is related to deployment: Sugar Labs has no human face...
<walter>
what if we make a page which is a matrix of faces: developers, teachers, children
<walter>
we can ask everyone to upload pictures
<walter>
I guess the silence is an indication that there isn't much interest in the idea
<dirakx>
that gets me to another idea of having something like about sugar with the names and faces? of all the devs and others. .
<walter>
something to give it a human side
<dirakx>
i like the idea ;). though i dont now about the others..
<dirakx>
now/know.
<walter>
I'll float it this weekend.
<tomeu>
walter: sounds good to me
<tomeu>
yup
<walter>
should we just make a "galley" in the wiki?
<walter>
^galley^gallery
<erikos>
walter: i am ok as well to upload my face ;p
<dirakx>
walter are you thnking in something like the
Community/profiles
page on wiki.laptop.org ?
<dirakx>
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Profiles
<walter>
great
<walter>
but maybe simpler
<walter>
Just a picture...
<walter>
and a link to a User page if there is one
<walter>
Wanna sketch it out on Sugar Labs?
<dirakx>
yep why not..
<walter>
Think we could get kids and teachers to post?
<dirakx>
i could send an email to Sur asking, we will see how it goes ;).
<walter>
Let'
<walter>
s prepare the page first
<tomeu>
I guess some teachers from uy will be favorable
<walter>
so they have somewhere to go
<tomeu>
although they are just starting to participate
<dirakx>
tomeu: yes.
<dirakx>
some suggesiotns about how the page should be named?
<walter>
profiles is fine... just something more simple than the OLPC version
<dirakx>
ok
<walter>
thanks.
<erikos>
tomeu: will you wear a black or a red shirt?
<tomeu>
hmm, not sure
<tomeu>
I guess it depends on which one is in the washing machine :p
<erikos>
:p
<erikos>
some of the pictures at olpc site are a bit scary - hope we don't scare people away
<erikos>
maybe everyone should draw an animal, instead :)
<walter>
For those who have customized their Sugar icon, maybe they could include that?
<walter>
Speaking of which, I need to write up a ticket for making the user icon a separate file from the xo icon.
<erikos>
oh yeah - heard that changing the sugar icon is on vogue
<walter>
I documented it in Modifying Sugar in the Sugar manual...
<walter>
but OLPC didn't include that chapter in the Help manual
<walter>
But the granularity of control is not quite correct
<walter>
MyIcon.py lets you modify the homeview, but not your icon in any other view
<erikos>
oh, the manual in the help activity does only include a portion
<dirakx>
erikos: i agree some pictures in those profiles are too geeky even for me taste ;).
<walter>
computer-xo.svg modifies it everywhere, including places it shouldn't
<erikos>
yeah modifying the computer-xo icon is not the right way
<walter>
that was the method advertised in OLPCNews a few months ago.
<erikos>
we once had early code for that
<erikos>
since you would ideally send the image as well around when
<erikos>
to appear on the other's mesh view
<erikos>
but this would need quite some effort, actually - to make it happen
<walter>
sorry: I had to step away for a phone call.
<walter>
It could be staged: change it on your machine and then change it on the network...
<walter>
I had built a parametrized XO that with a few extra bytes let the XO change over the mesh...
<erikos>
sure, it is true that you could stage the task
<erikos>
how critical is it, i wonder?
<walter>
the first step would be to make a clear distinction between the xo-icon and my-icon in the codebase
<walter>
not critical...
<walter>
the journal is most important
<walter>
the first step would be to make a clear distinction between the xo-icon and my-icon in the codebase
<walter>
not critical...
<walter>
the journal is most important
<tomeu>
walter: do you have already an idea of what changes in the journal UI are most urgent?
<tomeu>
everybody seems to have a different idea each ;)
<walter>
@tomeu: the most important things in my mind are: robustness; easier access to journal items (e.g., access from the home page); and a better way of managing the data as it grows.
<walter>
Robustness is really the datastore
<walter>
I think the discussion about tags is a good way to address the management issues
<walter>
but I think the bulk of the journal "spam" as Albert likes to call it, comes from the fact that people don't access the Journal more directly--we need to make it an extension of the homepage.
<tomeu>
yeah, we see some consensus growing on that
<tomeu>
I think we definitely should get that one for 9.1
<walter>
I had some UI ideas that Eben/Pentagram never liked about making the journal a direct extension of the Frame
<tomeu>
0.84
<tomeu>
oh, haven't heard about it
<walter>
Just like the clipboard is always there, relevant journal entries could always be there
<tomeu>
some kind of "recent documents"?
<walter>
yeah.
<walter>
or recent objects, once you are in an activity
<walter>
Eben I think wanted to do this with a tray instead
<tomeu>
I'm not sure we'll have much time to do changes in the journal UI for 0.84
<tomeu>
so we should choose well what gives most for the price
<walter>
I don't expect that level of change, but I think the datastore ideas from last January could support this model
<tomeu>
for now, I think the tags stuff is too much for 0.84 unless someone volunteers to help
<walter>
When we think about what we optimize in terms of access...
<tomeu>
walter: yup, increasing query performance is one of the main goals of the rewrite
<tomeu>
we are already much better and can improve significantly
<tomeu>
more
<walter>
That's going to make a huge difference... the foundation has to be there first.