Title: Deployment Team/Meetings/2008-10-01/Logs
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Deployment_Team/Meetings/2008-10-01/Logs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<walter>
Good morning everyone
<dirakx1>
good morning ;)
<walter>
Or afternoon to those of you on the other side of the Atlantic.
<walter>
I have a few topics for today: the Lima sprint; the small deployment guide; LiveUSB
<walter>
Are there other things people want to add?
erikos can only listen sporadically, since he has another meeting next door
<dirakx1>
nope i have only some comments but nothing further to add.
<walter>
Shall we start with the Lima sprint?
<dirakx1>
yes.
<walter>
I spoke with Hernan last night. (I don't know if he can join us today)
<walter>
He said he could arrange a meeting room with internet access at the university.
<walter>
He may also be able to arrange some lodging
<walter>
We need to get back to him regarding dates and numbers
<walter>
(I still haven't looked into changing my flight--I better to that)
<dirakx1>
ok..i have his gmail contact..
<dirakx1>
which time do you have your flight?
<dirakx1>
time/date
<walter>
Presently, I am not scheduled to arrive in Lima until mid-week.
<dirakx1>
so like 23th october?
<walter>
11PM on the 21st.
<dirakx1>
ok..i'll make arrangements to book my flight to that also.
<walter>
I'd like to switch it to arriving Sunday night, the 19th, so we can use M/T to work
<dirakx1>
that date.
<dirakx1>
M/T ?
<walter>
There is a 3-day conference at the university beginning on Wednesday that I need to attend.
<walter>
So I though we could get started on Monday.
<dirakx1>
yes the game jam!
andresambrois (n=aa@r190-135-183-150.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
The game jam and a FOSS meeting as well.
<dirakx1>
i've spoked to samuel. and olpc has offer to refund my tickets.
<walter>
Great.
<walter>
Will you be traveling from Colombia?
<walter>
Maybe they could sponsor Yama too?
<dirakx1>
yes.
<walter>
I think he could come if someone could take care of his travel.
<dirakx1>
olpc is  going to sponsor also sebastian silva from chile.
<walter>
Great. All for the game jam too?
<dirakx1>
yeah!
<dirakx1>
i don't know yama.
<dirakx1>
i'll have to ask
<walter>
So it sounds like 5-6 people for the book jam?
<walter>
Yama is in Bolivia.
<dirakx1>
ok.
<dirakx1>
yes like 5-6 people.
<walter>
I'll let Hernan know and I'll try to move my ticket to fly on Sunday.
<walter>
I'll ask Hernan to recommend lodging.
<dirakx1>
ok i can do that also.
<dirakx1>
fine..copy me on that if you can.
<dirakx1>
so we have to divide time between the jam/conf and the book sprint..
<walter>
Maybe you and I can spend a few minutes with the flossmanual translation tools before hand
<dirakx1>
yeah that would be ok.
<walter>
Adam Hyde may be able to walk us through the process.
<dirakx1>
perfect
<walter>
I'll ping Adam and ask when a good time to do it would be.
<dirakx1>
nice.
<dirakx1>
do you know if other besides olpc can sponsor yama to come to Peru?
<walter>
Also, we should see if we can recruit a few locals to participate.
<walter>
I'm working on raising money for such things, but I don't have any yet.
<cjb>
Morning all.
<dirakx1>
i have received some mails from local devs, so i guess they'll join us also.
<dirakx1>
cjb: morning
<dirakx1>
walter: ok
<walter>
I'll also ping Carla to see if she may be able to join us. (She couldn't attend today's meeting as she is in the air)
<dirakx1>
i can contact claudia urrea..to meet us next time, she is in the learning team also.
<walter>
Claudia is running a workshop in Venezuela this month, I think. But for Schlumberger, not OLPC.
<walter>
But it would be great if she could join us too.
<dirakx1>
ok.
<walter>
So maybe I should ask Hernan for a room big enough for 10 people.
<dirakx1>
that seems fine to me. i guess the uni will have one to suit our needs.
<dirakx1>
any more issues related to the peru conf?
<walter>
Not that I can think of. I've written to Adam to see if there are any issues re the tools.
aa has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<walter>
We could try to do some prep work if people have time--generating some screen shots, etc.
<dirakx1>
yeah that's fine.
<walter>
My second topic is more of a question: how do we light a fire under the small deployment guide?
<dirakx1>
walter: i've pinged the educators and some pedagogical institutions about that..
<walter>
It was very clear from the Open Minds conference I attended that lots of people are interested in Sugar (and OLPC), but they don't know how to get stated.
<dirakx1>
but  not much of retroalimentation yet.
<walter>
A simple step-by-step guide would be of great utility.
<walter>
I am going to try to walk a Boston public school through the process of converting a computer lab using USB keys.
<walter>
I'll try to document the process in detail.
<dirakx1>
but why  can't they get started?..or what were their issues regarding to that?.
<walter>
I really believe making that as easy and painless as possible is key to their willingness to try the more ambitious deployments of laptops.
<dirakx1>
regarding live usb's that would be of great help..
<walter>
The laptop deployment is easier, because everything is prepackaged and in a known state.
<walter>
the random computer lab with a random configuration of hardware, software, and network is probably impossible
<walter>
but we'll give it a try--because the teachers are willing to take such a risk.
<dirakx1>
in a workshop we had in colombia the situation was solved working with live cds..
<walter>
but the Live USB situation is anything but stable yet.
<dirakx1>
yeah, i guess we need to put more work into that.
<walter>
LiveCD is great for a demo or a workshop, but not a real trial, unless there is some trick to saving user data
<walter>
DId you use the Ubuntu LiveCD? With the old Sugar bits?
<dirakx1>
yeah that's the problem ..
<dirakx1>
yes..
<dirakx1>
IIRC
<walter>
The Boston trial is interesting because they want the kids to run Sugar at home too.
<walter>
The same USB key would move the data back and forth and they are very excited about having a jabber connection for the kids at home.
<dirakx1>
wow..that's cool we can extract info of great value there.
<walter>
But we are still not quite there in terms of packaging. I think we'll need to do a lot of fine-tuning, which we can document and hopefully learn from.
<dirakx1>
ok...i'm going to take a note of that ;).
<dirakx1>
i've done a little work on debian packaging but there is a lot of work to do in that field.
<dirakx1>
but back into the small deployment discussion..
<walter>
One important thing to capture are all the roadblocks people are experiencing so that we can begin to address them.
<dirakx1>
i'm expecting some retroalimentation about the work that has been happening in the field  in Colombia by a pedagogical foundation.
<walter>
I've heard many, but haven't done a good job of writing them down.
<dirakx1>
i'm expecting that educators can help on that...but i think that they are not to much adjusted to wikis and irc maybe?
<walter>
Some of it is pedagogical, but most is bureaucratic.
<walter>
Yes. We need the educators' input.
<dirakx1>
bureaucratic in what sense?.
<walter>
Not wanting to change anything on the computers they already have...
<dirakx1>
ah..ok.
<dirakx1>
that's bad.
<walter>
It is what makes LiveUSB so attractive. But it is an imperfect solution.
<dirakx1>
yes, so far.
andresambrois is now known as aa
<dirakx1>
so we need to put work into that ;).
<walter>
Greg and the Fedora team is making some progress and I think Morgan is back on the case with Ubuntu...
<dirakx1>
cool.
<dirakx1>
so..a conclusion of the meeting could be that we have to wait and keep on trying for a better feedback?.
<walter>
While we are waiting, we should be gathering data regarding potential pitfalls.
<dirakx1>
yeah..
<dirakx1>
one pitfall is that lack of understanding of communication tools..
<dirakx1>
for example IRC and wikis.
<dirakx1>
so we can start from that.
<dirakx1>
i'll put some notes on the small deployment page related to that
<walter>
OK.
<walter>
Anything else for today?
<walter>
You had some comments?
<dirakx1>
and i'll keep on pinging about feedback...and some more deeply involved besides OLPC-sur
<dirakx1>
one positive thing is that we are seeing more involvement on the OLPC-sur mailist related to teachers..so that's good.
<walter>
Yes. OLPC-Sur has been a great resource.
<dirakx1>
we will see...i think we need more time to socialize ideas and communication.
<dirakx1>
but a key subject is that the educators need to use some other resources to share their ideas.
<dirakx1>
more  conferences like openmind are needed!
<dirakx1>
that's all :).
<walter>
OK. I did hear back from Adam and he can help us get started. Also, I just got my flight switched to the 20th.
<walter>
I mean the 19th.
<dirakx1>
i'll book my flight to 19th also, then.
<walter>
I'll let Hernan know and be back in touch about the Lima details.
<dirakx1>
walter: great thanks.
<walter>
OK. Talk to you all later.
<dirakx1>
bye all.