Title: Design Team/Meetings
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Design_Team/Meetings#Saturday_10_July_2010_14:30_UTC
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Vision
·
To Do
·
Meetings
The Design team will be holding regular
bi-
weekly meetings on
Mondays at 15:00 UTC
on irc.freenode.net (channel: #sugar-meeting). The meeting is targeted to Sugar core and activity developers, but remains open to anyone interested. Its primary purpose is to open the design approach, making it more transparent and allowing the community to provide feedback on both current and upcoming features. Please add to the agenda below, join in with your ideas, or add them to the
Discussion page
. See
IRC
for information on getting there.
In general, discussion focuses on:
high level design goals and ideas
feedback and discussion of problems in the current design
reviews of design proposals
Hint: You can use an
online time calculator
to convert from UTC to your local time zone or back.
To convert UTC to your local time, use
this converter
or run:
date -d '[current date] [time] UTC'
date -d '2008-06-03 14:00 UTC'
Please post discussion materials for the full community.
Design Team/Proposals
and
Features
are 2 good places for referencing design ideas.
The Sugar Labs Meetings calendar is available in a variety of formats at these links:
.
Friday September 14 2018 - 12:00PM UTC
https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Design_Team/Meetings/2018-09-15
Proposed agenda
Restructuring the design team
Working with the marketing team
Design improvements(sugar desktop, sugar icons, "logo, website" etc)
Thursday September 21 2017 - 11 PM UTC
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2017-09-22
Post-meeting Discussion
According to Sugar Labs
Code of Conduct
"Sugar is a place for children to explore, learn, teach and reflect. Sugar Labs is a place where we all can explore, learn, teach and reflect. The same underlying principles that make Sugar great -discovery, collaboration, and reflection- are central to the way Sugar community operates."  The Design team should not be an exemption. It should be composed of children, teachers, developers and non-developers as well. -- Laura
Disagree.  There should be no requirement for any of the informal Sugar Labs teams to contain any specific representation.  Only those truly interested in designing, and with experience in design, should be on a design team.  Adding those without knowledge and communication skills in design is counter-productive.  --
Quozl
(
talk
) 01:20, 23 September 2017 (EDT)
Pre-meeting Discussion
The design team is composed of designers who have made significant contributions to Sugar design. What members of the team agreed to this meeting time? Who will be attending? --Walter (talk) 11:24, 19 September 2017‎ (UTC)
Agreed.  To my knowledge, no members agreed to this meeting time and none of them will be attending.  --
Quozl
(
talk
) 21:24, 18 September 2017 (EDT)
This date/time is also the Jewish New Year, which makes it impossible for some community members to attend. --
Walter
(
talk
) 18:38, 19 September 2017 (EDT)
Proposed agenda
Upgrading Sugar UI, defining this team/event main lines of action
Not a design issue.  Please be more specific about what you want the design team to do. --
Quozl
(
talk
) 21:19, 18 September 2017 (EDT)
Elimination of gender selection on first (welcome) screen
Not a design issue.  Make a pull request for code review. --
Quozl
(
talk
) 21:19, 18 September 2017 (EDT)
Proposal to get back Ignacio's patch so that users can modify their main icons
Not a design issue.  Make a pull request for code review. --
Quozl
(
talk
) 21:19, 18 September 2017 (EDT)
Tuesday August 26th 2012 - 16:30 UTC
Proposed agenda
Visual clue about secondary palette options
mail-list thread
Gonzalo
Higher-resolution Journal thumbnails for Activities
mail-list thread
Walter
Follow-up Home list view, hover highlight/click results in confusion for favourite icons: See
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org/ticket/3147#comment:3
Frederick
Follow-up "Examples" support for activities – using the ObjectChooser and/or also the Journal volumes bar to allow activities to provide access to an examples folder inside their bundles.
mail-list thread
tch
Follow-up on lease expiry information display in My Settings -> About My Computer,
mail-list thread
,
wiki proposal
recent mockup
Anish
Follow-up on multi-selection and batch operations on Journal entries
feature page
mail-list thread
Ongoing design review/testing/feedback of
Touch
features,
patches
available for testing
Simon
<Your agenda item here>
Tuesday August 14th 2012 - 16:30 UTC
Agenda
Home list view, hover highlight/click results in confusion for favourite icons: See
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org/ticket/3147#comment:3
Frederick
"Examples" support for activities – using the ObjectChooser and/or also the Journal volumes bar to allow activities to provide access to an examples folder inside their bundles.
mail-list thread
tch
Followup on lease expiry information display in My Settings -> About My Computer,
mail-list thread
,
wiki proposal
recent mockup
Anish
Followup on multi-selection and batch operations on Journal entries
feature page
mail-list thread
Design review/testing/feedback of
Touch
features,
patches
available for testing
Simon
Visual clue about secondary palette options
mail-list thread
Gonzalo
Higher-resolution Journal thumbnails for Activities
mail-list thread
Walter
Minutes
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-08-14T16:47:13.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-08-14T16:47:13
Tuesday August 7th 2012 - 16:30 UTC
Agenda
Lease expiry information display in My Settings -> About My Computer,
mail-list thread
,
wiki proposal
.
Anish
Followup on multi-selection and batch operations on Journal entries
feature page
mail-list thread
Home list view, hover highlight/click results in confusion for favourite icons: See
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org/ticket/3147#comment:3
Frederick
"Examples" support for activities – using the ObjectChooser and/or also the Journal volumes bar to allow activities to provide access to an examples folder inside their bundles.
mail-list thread
tch
Minutes
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-08-07T16:30:14.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-08-07T16:30:14
Tuesday July 31st 2012 - 16:30 UTC
Agenda
"Examples" support for activities – using the ObjectChooser and/or also the Journal volumes bar to allow activities to provide access to an examples folder inside their bundles.
mail-list thread
tch
Lease expiry information display in My Settings -> About My Computer,
mail-list thread
,
wiki proposal
.
Anish
Followup on multi-selection and batch operations on Journal entries
feature page
mail-list thread
Home list view, hover highlight/click results in confusion for favourite icons: See
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org/ticket/3147#comment:3
Frederick
Minutes
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-31T16:30:26.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-31T16:30:26
Monday July 23rd 2012 - 14:30 UTC
Agenda
Multi-selection and batch operations on Journal entries
feature page
mail-list thread
Touch hardware support
Activities
,
Sugar Shell
,
OSK
.
Re-assessment of text-to-speech engine options and in particular think about how we can improve upstream voices to cover more of our languages,
mail-list thread
.
cjl
"Examples" support for activities – using the ObjectChooser and/or also the Journal volumes bar to allow activities to provide access to an examples folder inside their bundles.
mail-list thread
tch
Lease expiry information display in My Settings -> About My Computer,
mail-list thread
,
wiki proposal
.
Anish
Minutes
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-23T14:31:15.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-23T14:31:15
Wednesday July 18th 2012 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Standard Help icon and toolbar position
#3746
,
#3721
,
#3720
,
3759
Simple messages notification system
Database support for 3G modem configuration
Journal multi-select
Touch hardware support
Activities
,
Sugar Shell
,
OSK
Minutes
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-18T15:00:17.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-07-18T15:00:17
Monday October 31st 2011 - 15:00 UTC
(meeting postponed)
Agenda
Write to Journal anytime might be incorporated in your work (JT4sugar)
both in Activity Frame palette, and as standard toolbar item where 'Keep' used to be
keyboard shortcut which would pop into activity description page
Activities temporarily mounting directories in the volumes toolbar to provide material (Walter)
'real' help in all activities (define 'real')
a consistent shortcut / help button
localisation issues regarding any large quantities of Activity texts
Review Design Team IAEP report
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/archive/iaep/2011-September/014080.html
PDF export support for Browse (
Patch
)
Icon design, placement of icon
Select some of our new standard toolbar icon designs for migration into sugar-artwork
Touch UI integration
proposals
add agenda items here
Monday October 17th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
postponed
Tidied up this Meeting page
misc chat in #sugar-meeting
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-10-17#i_2697757
Monday October 3rd 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Memorize toolbar
Design/Activity meetings proposal
Powerd 'please confirm' screen
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-10-03T15:58:15
minutes
Monday September 19th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Memorize toolbar polishing
Misc toolbar items
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-09-19T15:05:59
minutes
Monday September 5th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Browse tab designs
Browse palette changes
Empty /$HOME/Documents Journal message
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-09-05T15:03:01
Monday August 29th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Issue with transparency and cog badge for cloned activities
Browse, always show at least one tab vs. taking up space in toolbar and having a small URL input field
Misc toolbar icon tidy ups
Save to Journal icons where text file type abbreviations is needed (Write, Labyrinth)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-08-29T15:02:10
Monday August 15th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
0.94
feature list
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-08-15#i_2686952
Wednesday August 10th 2011 - 16:00 UTC
Agenda
Journal/file-system input/output toolbar
icon design
(mainly related to Turtle Art)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-08-10#i_2686200
Wednesday August 3rd 2011 - 16:00 UTC
Agenda
Activity toolbar standardisation (see
Catalog
)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-08-03#i_2683848
Sunday June 19th 2011 - 16:00 UTC
Agenda
~/Documents folder patch and a related topic showing remote objects (XS, other XOs) in the Journal (silbe)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-06-19#i_2675060
Sunday June 12th 2011 - 16:00 UTC
Agenda
View source activity copy proposals (Walter)
View sugar source proposals (Walter)
Browse pdf export to Journal
General import/export icon design
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-06-12T16:09:29
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-06-12T17:36:10
Sunday June 5th 2011 - 16:00 UTC
Agenda
Discussion with Sascha regarding his proposals regarding Neighborhood design related to NetworkManager api support work
see email Subject: [DESIGN] NetworkManager / Neighborhood design changes
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-06-05T16:17:34
Sunday May 29th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Copy-to option:
black and white mockup
,
ml discussion
Reword warning in Browse when stopping while there are downloads happening in the background (
#1508
,
thread on sugar-devel
)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-05-29
Sunday April 17th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Proposal for adding a standard activity "About Dialog" (icarito)
Discussion of extra metadata/files that could be good to add ABOUT/README/AUTHORS/MAINTAINER upstream git rep in activity.info (silbe)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2011-04-17#i_2658914
Sunday April 10th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Follow up on a standard tool icon for create-new/modify type Activity functionality (e.g. cog/spanner/scissors discussion) (erikos)
Built-in Activity examples UI and/or root fs access (walterbender)
Standard system icon use (re Gonzalo's email)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-04-10T14:41:44
Sunday March 27th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
Feedback for Record Activity
toolbar rework
. (garycmartin)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-03-27T15:04:42
minutes
Sunday March 20th 2011 - 15:00 UTC
Agenda
A standard tool icon for create-new/modify type Activity functionality (e.g. for Memorize, Abacus, et al user customisation) (erikos)
use of a scissor (like editing an activity), or the gear like we use in 'view source'?
Get rid of Alt-1 for taking screenshots (collides with some applications, e.g. irssi) (silbe)
What date should the activities list view show for pre-installed activities? (
OLPC#10487
,
patch discussion
) (silbe)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-03-20T19:01:02
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-03-20T20:03:00
March 13th 2011
Agenda
Replace Naming Alert
: a) switch to Journal detail view b) option in the activity toolbar to do a description and tags (erikos)
discussed on
27 February
and
20 February
, when we agreed to prepare
mockups
for some of the ideas. These
design mockups
were reviewed today.
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-03-13T15:05:59
March 6th 2011
Agenda
Housekeeping discussion (trying to keep realtime meeting agenda items on things that benefit from realtime)
Journal backup UI (
Patch
from Martin Abente,
Patch
from Sascha Silbe,
Backup
and
Restore
activities by Sascha Silbe) (silbe)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-03-06
February 27th 2011
Agenda
Discussed topics:
Size issue with icons in Random Layout (Home View) (walterbender)
mock-ups
Replace Naming Alert
: a) switch to Journal detail view b) option in the activity toolbar to do a description and tags (erikos)
discussed
last week
, agreed to prepare
mockups
for some of the ideas.
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-02-27
February 20th 2011
Agenda
Discussed topics:
Remove 'Keep' Button: Replace by 'copy to' functionality in the Journal (erikos)
The Notion of Keeping
Remove button and add 'Copy to >' functionality to the Frame palette for the activity.  This preserves ready access from current activity, but minimizes unintentional copying. (FGrose)
possible copy-to-journal icon
CPU and memory resource indicator for the Frame (silbe)
Features/Resource monitoring
(action item)
Replace Naming Alert
: a) switch to Journal detail view b) option in the activity toolbar to do a description and tags (erikos)
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-02-20T16:30:07
minutes
February 13th 2011
Agenda
Discussed topics:
Size issue with icons in Random Layout (Home View) (walterbender)
Speaker frame device: pop up palette on left-click instead of toggling mute (silbe)
Don't hide Register menu item upon successful registration (silbe)
Journal entries on external media:
Invalidate preview
if the data file was changed? (silbe)
'Watermark' the image with 'Changed'. (Even an old image may help identify the object.) (FGrose)
Followup discussion:
Updating the
Human Interface Guidelines
A
printable version
can be prepared by selecting 'Printable version' in the 'Using the Wiki' section of the sidebar.
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-02-13T14:01:43
minutes
July 10th 2010
Agenda
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/devel/2010-July/029187.html
Designs for the proposed Start new/Resume functionality in Home view.
Log
meeting log
August 16th 2009
Agenda
Sugar 0.86 Design
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090816_0941.html
log
minutes
May 9th 2009
Agenda
Sayamindu's dictionary dialog.
See
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg04042.html
Jameson's accelerators proposals.
See
Design_Team/Proposals#Keyboard_Action
Printing proposal from several people.
See
Print Support
,
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg03984.html
,
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg03991.html
Martin's clock proposal.
See
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg03934.html
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090509_1013.html
minutes
April 19th 2009
Agenda
We discussed design goals for the next release 0.86. Design mockups will be created in response to the high-level features listed below (potentially in advance of SugarCamp 2009 on May 16th), to further illustrate the design intent and allow for integration with the development schedule.
High-level feature recap:
polish activity list in Home
support filtering/searching via tags in Home
add list views to groups/neighorhood
make groups dynamic (like neighborhood)
extend activity chat
add overlay chat to groups/neighborhood
design a bulletin-board _activity_
remove management from activity list, ensure _all_ installed activities are in Journal
new toolbar design
Concrete design/development tasks:
design mockups to make the frame more discoverable
design mockups to polish the new toolbars
Home list view: remove the date column and enable alphabetical sort. Label versions "Version x"
Design mockups for tagging/filtering/search within Home view
Draft changes to activity.info file to support tagging
Design mockups for overlay chat in groups/neighborhood (should also include revising the activity chat..which exists but not as earlier designs proposed)
Design mockups of bulletin board activity
Design mockups for list views in groups and neighborhood
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090419_0911.html
March 21st 2009
Agenda
Discussion of the Home view and whether to abandon the notion of favorites for a single consolidated view
See
Design Team/Proposals
.
Unify look of web services
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090321_1009.html
March 10th 2009
Agenda
Marketing Team
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090310_1100.html
http://www.mail-archive.com/iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg03132.html
March 1st 2009
Agenda
Continue discussion of revised, and thorough, mockups for overlay chat in activities.
ways in which this chat system can extend into the other zoom levels
short term and long term goals.
Development roadmap and prioritize design activities for next build
Log
Logs:
Design Team/Meetings/09.03.01
December 19th 2008
Agenda
Continue discussion of revised, and thorough, mockups for overlay chat in activities.
ways in which this chat system can extend into the other zoom levels
short term and long term goals.
December 4th 2008
Agenda
We'll focus on possibilities for overlay chat in activites, presenting both short term and long term ideas, and discuss how this could later be extended to the neighborhood.
Overlay chat sketch (PDF)‎
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/2008-12-04#i_2382400
November 26th 2008
Agenda
We'd like to hold a meeting this week while the topics discussed at the recent SugarCamp are fresh in our minds.  Though this is not part of the usual meeting cycle, I think it's important enough to merit an extra meeting.  Due to Thanksgiving on Thursday, we'll hold it on Wednesday instead.
Short Term Roadmap Definition
To capitalize on the extremely valuable discussions at the recent SugarCamp in Cambridge, we'd like to take some time to define a rough feature roadmap for the Sugar OS within the OLPC 9.1 timeframe.  As a starting point for this discussion, we should likely review the various design proposals presented on the last day of the conference.
Groups
Resuming activities from Home
Enhancing the Journal
Improving Toolbars
Encouraging Naming/Tagging
Logs
http://meeting.laptop.org/sugar-meeting.20081126_1018.html
September 18th 2008
Agenda
Visual Clipboard API
For reference, please see the
clipboard specification
.  For a more targeted list of features and goals, please see the
clipboard planning page
.
We had a fairly long discussion about this, which didn't seem to get too far. Fortunately, a follow-up between Marco and I clarified some points, and we agreed that it should be possible to implement the majority of the goals across the system using the "formats" allowed in the GTK protocols, and falling back to sane defaults when extra info isn't provided.
Some references:
http://www.pygtk.org/pygtk2tutorial/ch-NewInPyGTK2.2.html#sec-Clipboards
http://www.pygtk.org/pygtk2tutorial/ch-DragAndDrop.html
http://www.pygtk.org/pygtk2tutorial/ch-ManagingSelections.html
Advancing the Journal
I'd like to have a conversation regarding the current iteration of the Journal, future plans, and the steps we hope to take toward them in the next major release so we can scope our goals.  The latest mockups (though slightly out of date) can be seen
here
.
Due to the lengthy clipboard discussion, we didn't hit this topic today.  We'll pick it up first thing next week.
Icon reviews
We discussed three icons today.
Settings (control panel)
:  By popular demand, a wrench was chosen as the base for this icon, though it was also proposed that a wrench and screwdriver could be clearer.  It was agreed that the wrench is a simpler icon, and a more generic metaphor which could be used to represent "settings" throughout the system.  A few visual tweaks
(Trac #8198)
made many happier with the wrench, but since this isn't a major change they can come post 8.2.
View Details (Journal)
: The old designs for this button closely resembled a play button (but with an open triangle, akin to a greater than (>) symbol), which some found confusing.  The new proposal is an ellipsis [...] icon, to indicate the idea that more info is available, but omitted in the abbreviated list view.  This works nicely within the [wiki.laptop.org/go/Designs/Journal new Journal designs], since the icons will occasionally appear within a string of icon-annotated text.  All present agreed the latter was a better direction.  This change could make 8.2.
Access Point
: Recent experience reports have indicated that the removal of an identifier of the connected AP is frustrating.  The proposal discussed is shown
[1]
, which wraps the former AP icon (the circle) in "parenthesis" (meant to indicate radio signal).  This retains the primitive circular shape of the current access points, but illustrates which is connected in a way which alludes to the wireless activity LED.  The point was discussed that the other LED is actually more semantically correct, but not as suitable as an icon.
Additionally, these
alternate designs
were proposed, using antennae to make the purpose of the icons clearer.  We may wish to elicit feedback about these alternatives from teachers and kids to see which convey the notion of wireless connectivity the best.  The triangle proposed here was used once, and subsequently removed due to some distaste for the shape in this context, but it may still convey the idea better with the antenna.  This change is strongly desired for 8.2.