Title: Development Team/Meetings
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Development_Team/Meetings#The_Meeting_itself
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Development Team Meetings
Who
The meeting is targeted to Sugar core and activity developers, but everyone interested is welcome to join. We try to open the development up a bit, make it more transparent and allow the community to participate easily.
Default Agenda
Quick update about what we have been working on and eventually the problems we have run into.
Discussion about the implementation details of tickets we are planning to work on. Figure out how to split up the work and who should be owning the various parts.
Questions from activity authors about specific aspects of the platform and more in general on how to better integrate their activity in Sugar. Report about problems they run into.
Help out new contributors to figure out where to start. Point out the tickets we need help with, discuss with them the implementation.
How to add to the agenda
Add the topics that you want to discuss during the week to the upcoming meeting. They will be collected during the week and seny out in the meeting announcement on Tuesday morning.
Upcoming Meetings
Tuesday 21:00 UTC
what we have been working on,
Previous Meetings
10th April 2018 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
last planned update of this page, as no feedback was received.
3rd April 2018 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
27th March 2018 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
20th March 2018 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
13th March 2018 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
relevance canary; are you reading this?  the regular updates here will cease in another four weeks unless there is some feedback; updates will continue on sugar-devel@ mailing list.
6th March 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
Topics:
what we have been working on
Music Blocks release, hosting.  Reviewing patches.  Replacement of Record activity.  Porting to  Six and Python 3.  Porting activities to GTK+ 3 and Sugargame 1.2.
port to Python 3 and Six
expectations discussed, Q&A session, see summary and log.
general business
continuous integration, see summary and log.
27th February 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
summary
Topics:
what we have been working on
Bugs in Music Blocks, Speak, Memorize.  Porting activities to GTK+ 3 and Sugargame 1.2.
port to Python 3 and Six
plans made and discussed, see summary and log.
general business
see summary and log.
20th February 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
testing Sugar on Ubuntu 18.04, testing and design of Music Blocks.
14th January 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
quashing Music Blocks bugs, preparing tasks for GSoC, project mining, clean up activity metadata format, moved more of developer.sugarlabs.org over to GitHub.
30th January 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
review patches, review activity NumRush, port Letters and Physics to Sugargame 1.2, a contributors page for web site, Music Blocks planet, preparing new release, pitch visualisation, Clock activity user documentation, and creating tasks for GSoC.
16th January 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
fix startup delay in Sugargame, add ticking Clock, and a music blocks planet project moderation portal.
progress of GCI 2017
productive and enriching, last day today, opportunity for new activity maintainers to release contributed work.
9th January 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
patch reviews, patch tests, measure and clock activities, music blocks in browse, teaching humanitarian free and open source software.
progress of GCI 2017
GTK+ 3 conversions, documentation updates.
2nd January 2018 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
reviewing patches, updating translations,
progress of GCI 2017
GTK+ 3 conversions,
19th December 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
testing Sugar 0.112 on Fedora 18 and Ubuntu 18.04, answering questions on Sugar 0.112 release, a lot of bug fixes being reviewed.
progress of GCI 2017
students are starting to dig deeper, documentation for sugar-live-build has come together, some GTK+ 3 porting tasks coming up.
12th December 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
Walter has been administering
GCI 2017
, and working on Music Blocks and Turtle Blocks. James has been reviewing pull requests, checking licensing, testing Sugar on Ubuntu 18.04 beta, releasing Speak-55 and Read-118.1, and fixed a Paint activity empty canvas.
progress of GCI 2017
Almost 400 students, how to make a pull request, some solid contributions, some new activities.
cross-platform development
There are broken JavaScript activities that don't run on Sugar desktop.  Contributions are being wasted, and opportunity lost.  We had a Cross-Platform environment.  We have attracted JavaScript Web developers instead of JavaScript Cross-Platform developers.  We need Cross-Platform developers to merge the diverged libraries, and apply Cross-Platform practices to both libraries and activities.
5th December 2017 22:00 UTC
Only one developer was available, so the meeting did not happen.
28th November 2017 22:00 UTC
Only one developer was available, so the meeting did not happen.
21st November 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
Abdul has been working on an activity for Sugarizer.  Walter has been working on Google Code-in preparation and released Music Blocks 2.2.  James has been testing Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic in a VM, Fedora 27 SoaS on Raspberry Pi, and plans to write guidance for pull requests by GCI contestants.
14th November 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
About 308 GCI tasks have been defined privately by the mentors, Music Blocks source code has been prepared for GCI, Sugar Software Update has been tested; a rogue Browse-157.4 bundle was found, several GitHub issues cleaned in preparation for GCI.
7th November 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
preparing for GCI, merged several translation pull requests, began looking into why Sugar POT file is generated differently, released and tested Browse 201.3 native, reviewed Paraguay's build of sugar, reviewed Arch Linux packaging of Sugar, thinking of updating a beginners guide, merging www-sugar, and Music Blocks.
31st October 2017 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
nothing in particular.
how to encourage testing of Fedora packagers' work
Thomas and Frederick found fail-to-start problems in Fedora 27, as the Sugar and Browse packages had not been tested at all, so we all need to test the work of our downstream packagers, and help them where possible.
24th October 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
updating
examples
and testing of Music Blocks, testing new WebKit GTK+ with Browse, looking for source code commits for the FindWords-3.1 activity, and releasing
MusicKeyboard-11
.
17th October 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
what we have been working on
features in Music Blocks, assessing GTK+ 3 porting, preparing for and merging translations,
impact of GTK+ 2 removal in Fedora and Debian
GTK+ is a library, see
GTK+
and
GTK+
, GTK+ 3 is incompatible with GTK+ 2, many activities for Sugar depend on GTK+ 2, GTK+ 2 is scheduled for removal in Fedora 28 and in Debian Buster, removal already starting in Debian, bad user experience with Browse and activities.sugarlabs.org is non-starting activities, all Fructose activities are converted, Labyrinth is of interest to OLPC and has an upstream port, Record is of interest to OLPC and has an in-progress port at
https://github.com/quozl/record-activity/tree/gtk3
, Moon is of interest to OLPC and has a JavaScript port, GCI will have porting tasks.
10th October 2017 22:00 UTC
Only one developer was available, so the meeting did not happen.
Topics:
post-release
0.112
review
no test reports received.
what we have been working on
new gst-plugins-espeak, contributors list, releasing, testing
0.112
, font size in Terminal, bugs in gst-plugins-espeak.
Report was made
by mail
.
3rd October 2017 22:00 UTC
Only one developer was available, so the meeting did not happen.
Topics:
progress of testing 0.111
going well, and a bootable build is available.
merging any translations
no new translations, so no need for merge.
readiness for 0.112
release notes are complete, nothing is blocking release on 9th October.
what we have been working on
Memorize and Speak activities do fail to start on Ubuntu 17.04 Artful due to default voice missing from espeak, since fixed in gst-plugins-espeak.  sugar-docs has been updated for using sugar-live-build as a development environment, and remove sugar-build.  The AbiWord fix for #4915 Write activity flicker has been accepted by Ubuntu and Debian, and has tested fine in those distributions.  Also on GitHub have been commits in embedded Music Blocks, embedded Turtle Blocks, Help, and ImageViewer.
Report was made
by mail
.
26 September 2017 22:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
progress of testing 0.111
some testing is being done, but more testing would be helpful, see
testing 0.111
,
merging latest translations
asked translators mailing list, no new translations made, strings for save-as feature are new, some Music Blocks strings changed too,
readiness for 0.112
some time before translations must be in per
schedule
, release process well understood and should not take long, possibility of a test image,
what we have been working on
bug
#4915 ("Write redraws excessively - heats my lap")
the AbiWord flicker, a fix is available, but upstream wants it also fixed on Wayland, though Ubuntu
has taken it
, applying the fix is straightfoward; release notes are to include Turtle Blocks porting, and therefore other activities (done, see
0.112#Notes
), Turtle Blocks 216 for upload (done), and a test image is nearly complete, which can be a replacement for sugar-build, see
Sugar Live Build
.
19 September 2017 21:00 UTC
minutes
log
Topics:
Release Manager
We ack'd James Cameron in his role as release manager for 0.112.
Community Standards
We reiterated the importance of civil behavior and the necessity to work with the community, not unilaterally. We also reviewed the mechanisms we use for pull requests, reviews, and merging.
0.112 release testing
We discussed
0.112/Testing
Version numbering
We agreed to investigate the possibility of switching to 113 for the next release (a monotonic numbering system).
ALSOv3
We agreed to work with SCG to do the ground work necessary to get ALSOv3 launched.
30 October 2010 22:00 UTC
minutes
,
log
Not discussed:
Settle down patch submitting workflow:
email based workflow as a primarily model (check other FOSS projects to gather all existed experience)
alsroot
07:35, 27 October 2010 (EDT)
write an email-bot/trac-plugin to make an email<->trac sync. Will be useful, e.g., for non-developers who track bugs status and to let people know the current status in most convenient way. All emails, w/ ticket set, will be posted to bugs.sl.o and any comments(and patches) to bugs.sl.o, to tickets w/ previously sent patches, will be emailed.
alsroot
07:35, 27 October 2010 (EDT)
Requirement to use pylint/pep8 in git pre-commit:
sugar-lint
, because it is a standalone project and can be used as-is also, e.g., for activities (i.e., as unified lint tool within sugar doers)
alsroot
07:39, 27 October 2010 (EDT)
Increase a level of trust within core team, make patch reviewing workflow more clear:
Any committer, to a particular core project, might be a reviewer (we either should trust all these people or drop them from committer list)
alsroot
07:59, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
To accept
regular
(reviewer decides whether patches are regular or not, of course, better to discuss it with other committers if there are doubts) patches, only one reviewer is needed
alsroot
07:59, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
Non-regular patches should be formed in
Features
. These patches might take several tens of K. This is by design; that it is hard not only to develop, but also to review and it should involve several committers for a reasonable amount of time.
alsroot
09:28, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
Review process should not include debates about coding style, if coding style conforms to lint checks and Hacking Policy (if it has unequivocal statements, needs to be rechecked), it should be applied
alsroot
09:33, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
Purism is good but there is no need to achieve it by single patch, it might be changed in post-commit patches if second reviewer (e.g., looking to the patch thread on mailing list) found an issue in already commited code.
alsroot
13:39, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
officially dropping support for 0.86? (e.g.
#1838
)
do we need to discuss thing like that on Development Team meeting, is it a more appropriate task for Deployment and Platform teams?
alsroot
07:59, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
big (and small) ideas for 0.92  --
Walter
13:17, 25 October 2010 (EDT)
Support
isolated
start of glucose components. In that case, merge sugar-base to sugar-toolkit (
patches
[yet] don't implement it but import sugar-base from sugar-toolkit) to have API that will be used as a single access point to sugar core functionality for activities.
alsroot
08:12, 30 October 2010 (EDT)
Wednesday 30 June 2010 13:00 UTC
minutes
,
log
Introduction: the release cycle approach
Define the overall goal for 0.90
Review processes (review, Feature)
Open positions (development team, design team, testing team)
Monday 22 March 2010 14:00 UTC
minutes
,
log
.
Welcome newcomers
0.88 Release: hard code freeze, final release, 0.88.1
Monday 8 March 2010 14:00 UTC
minutes
,
log
.
backport
SL#1787
to 0.86, push out + announce new release
0.88 Release: bug database cleanup, code review, stabilization, etc
Monday 22 February 2010 14:00 UTC
minutes
,
log
.
0.88 Release: bug database cleanup, fix bugs, etc
Activity Team: Move to new toolbar
Monday 8 February 2010 14:00 UTC
Logs
logs
minutes
Topics
State of 0.88 release
2009 Meetings
Thursday 10 September 2009 14:00 UTC
Logs
Development Team/Meetings/Logs/September 10 2009
Topics
Improving testing, triaging and bugfixing
test plans
testing meetings
triaging
Fructose Activities: in/out
Tuesday 1st September 2009 16:00 UTC
Logs
Development Team/Meetings/Logs/September 01 2009
Topics
Release process
Sascha: Schedule too tight for GSoC projects, no time for the review process.
Sascha: i think the release process is fine so far. code review could be improved, but we're already on it.
Tomeu: we have one pending feature freeze exceptions: Hamilton Chua has proposed that we merge his code for registering with a school server. It has already one +1, it needs one more.
Gary: feature freeze seemed a little 'slushy' this time, we still need to merge the new toolbars for some activities in Sucrose.
Aleksey: we missed the chance of having library.sl.o (or so) in 0.86 to share .xol/jobjects -- I think the problem is that we don't have an engineering committee. Aleksey will restart discussion on this in the mailing list.
Ben: the development mailing list is the engineering committee. I'm just trying to avoid the creation of more unnecessary committees, meeting, and IRC traffic.
Stabilization
Gary: window layering bugs in our metacity usage block testing to some point
Tomeu: we'll have to go back to matchbox if we cannot fix that
Sascha: Issues with the Alt key
Ben: I think the most helpful thing would be to release up-to-date emulation images.
Simon: we need to organize the bug work: hold triaging sessions, fix bugs and produce images that people can test.
Ben: I think it should be a high priority for all bugs in trac to be correctly prioritized and targeted.
Ben: IMHO, our target should be "ready for deployment by OLPC to hundreds of thousands of children on the XO-1.5".
Simon: I would say - we need to propose a build on the ml and ask for testing
Tomeu: so we should update the rpms, several fixes landed since the last ones. I will do it tomorrow.
Thomas: I can help here via vmware and usb/sd testing have f12 edu spin on sd now
Simon: I will work with Gary on toolbars
Rafael: I'll help with testing, having the emulation images...
Ben: I think an official proclamation of a "Bug Hunt" on the mailing list would help, once we are ready.  Maybe with periodic updates as to who has discovered the most bugs, and who has killed the most? Almost like a competition.
Sascha: how about the doing a bug hunt contest and the winner gets their favourite feature in? ;)
Sebastian: one thing I'd like to raise is that we might need immediate packaging after 0.86 is out (since we might otherwise conflict with F12's feature freeze)
Journal view extensions
Aleksey: would be extensions like the cp sections are and bundled like activities
Aleksey: deploy extensions like from ASLO, at the end
Benjamin: insecure, frame devices and control panel plugins are not designed to be easily modified, because they have tremendous system access.
Sascha: so what's the advantage of Journal plugins/extensions of activities interfacing directly with the data store?
Tomeu: time ran out, let's discuss code review and journal view extensions to the next week meeting
28th August 2009
Logs
Development Team/Meetings/Logs/August 28 2009
Topics
Gonzalo Chevarria presented the project on which he works:
http://cixosfia.libreusmp.org/
CIXOS-FIA is currently composed by 16 people and is organized in these groups: Web development, Python development, XO support, Volunteers and Logistics.
This group wants to work together in improving Sugar with other similar groups.
Has been proposed the creation of a mailing list to be used for development issues in spanish:
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/sugar-desarrollo
A report about usage of the XO in Peru is going to be published very soon, issues will be reported to the OLPC and Sugar Labs bug trackers.
2 July 2009
Summary
,
log
18 June 2009
Topic:
Sugarizing of Web apps (by Lucian Branescu Mihaila)
Calendar:
event
Summary
,
log
Thursday May 21 2009 - 16.15 (UTC)
Topics
Jeff Elkner will present the Sugar Labs, DC project:
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/archive/iaep/2009-May/005689.html
Packaging subteam, re:
http://www.mail-archive.com/iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg04254.html
Thursday May 21 2009 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
Development Team/Meetings/Logs/May 21 2009
Topics
0.86 roadmap discussion
Thursday February 26 2009 - 16.00 (UTC)
Topics
a) Bug review.  What bugs are hot in the 0.84 release?
Thursday February 19 2009 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
Summary:
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.20090219_0909.html
Transcript:
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090219_0909.html
Thursday January 22 2009 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090122_0921.html
Topics
a) February the 13th is the due date for our Sucrose 0.83 Release Candidate 1 (
Development Team/Release/Roadmap#Schedule
). What needs to happen in the next weeks to get there?
b) Update
Development Team/TODO
list
c) Auto-authentication for Browse when visiting web-based tools on the XS it has registered to (guest speaker Martin Langhoff)
d) What about the activity updater?
Thursday January 15 2009 - 15.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090115_1006.html
Topics
a) Feature freeze: are we ready? what next?
b) update
TODO
list
c) How long to support "old" versions of Sugar (Debian lenny might ship 0.82)
2008 Meetings
Thursday December 11 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20081211_0903.html
Topics
a) Schedule: adjust feature freeze
b) create a short term TODO list of items (i.e. collaboration rock) and 
find owners and priorities
c) developer items for the getting involved page (things/ideas that 
someone that have a bit of free time can help with, should be doable in 
a two weeks time frame)
d) gitorious (which tags to use, proper naming policies etc)
e) trac (add the needed milestones...)
Thursday November 13 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20081113_0945.html
Topics
we want to get some items together for the Sugar Workshop on Saturday the
15th Nov in Paris
. Collect a set of bugs that people can fix or other item they can work on during that day. And we should collect some material that Daniel can use to make an introduction (if he has not done so yet).
Sugar version being used during the workshop
Introduction material
Work on the memorize activity:
#6549
open bugs
Thursday November 06 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar-meeting-Nov-06-2008.log
Topics
a) NM 07: patch for the Fedora 10 and Ubuntu rpm will be ready soon
b) icon cache:
look into reusing the data from an old cache file (benzea)
look into scaling down the images
fix it up so it does not import GTK+ (or at least does not fail)
testing
get the code into normal builds
c) activity maintainers
right down detailed steps to release a module (erikos)
come up with a proposal for SL infra (marco)
get more activity authors to next meeting! Pleas join discussing with Gary was very helpful today.
Thursday October 16 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar-meeting-Oct-16-2008.log
Topics
We will do another iteration on the Roadmap and will discuss API policy (
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-October/009199.html
)
and changes.
Thursday October 9 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar-meeting-Oct-09-2008.log
Topics
Roadmap
update and discuss the existing concrete items (i.e. icon cache)
Thursday September 25 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar-meeting-Sep-25-2008.log
Topics
Form the Sugar Labs Bugsquad
At this meeting we want to form the Sugar Labs Bugsquad, the Quality Assurance (QA) team for Sugar. The squad keeps track of current bugs in the sugar software and try to make sure that major bugs do not go unnoticed by developers. You do not need any programming knowledge to be in the Bugsquad; in fact it is a great way to return something to the Sugar community if you cannot program.
The squad is modelled on the gnome bugsquad:
http://developer.gnome.org/projects/bugsquad/
More info about the sugar bugsquad can be found at
BugSquad
Questions
why a bugsquad?
why outside of olpc?
do we need a special mailing list (bugsquad@sugarlabs.org)?
do we need a special irc channel for the squad (#sugar-bugsquad)?
do we want a tracker at sugarlabs.org to keep track of bugs in non-olpc distributions (debian, fedora ...)?
How about bug days (a gathering on irc to find bugs and clean out the bug database)
gnome-bug-days
?
Thursday September 18 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
sugar-meeting-Sep-18-2008
Topics
Roadmap
keep on reviewing the list we have at
Development Team/Release/Roadmap/0.84#Goals
assigned owners and peers to all groups
started to assign owners to each feature
You can find the orphaned items under
Unassigned
in each section. 
Give them a home!
Thursday September 11 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
sugar-meeting-Sep-11-2008
Topics
Roadmap
keep on reviewing the list we have at
Development Team/Release/Roadmap/0.84#Goals
Sugarbot
sugarbot is a GUI automation utility for the OLPC Project's Sugar GUI. It provides functionality for developers to write tests for their Activities, and monitor those tests in a similar manner to unit-tests. sugarbot supports continuous integration with buildbot, so that multiple platforms and host configurations may be tested seamlessly.
- What does that mean?
OLPC developers now have a GUI automation environment that they can use to perform regression testing on their Activities. This enhances code reliability, and lets developers spend more time developing, and less time bug-testing and bug-hunting.
- Where can I see sugarbot in action?
A screencast of Sugarbot is available
here
- Where can I get sugarbot?
Sugarbot's package and documentation is available
here
action items:
get sugarbot building/running into sugar-jhbuild
get it to work on the buildbot
Mailing Lists
devel-announce? activities-devel? @sugarlabs or @laptop?
Thursday August 28 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
sugar-meeting-Aug-28-2008
Topics
Update (Thrilling news of this week)
Roadmap
review the list we have at
Development Team/Release/Roadmap/0.84#Goals
do we finally agree on a 6 months cycle?
Status of bugfixing
Introducing the new developers
Thursday August 21 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
sugar-meeting-Aug-21-2008
Topics
Update (Thrilling news of this week)
No special news this week
Roadmap
What do we want to do for
Development Team/Release/Roadmap/0.84
?
we aim for a 6 months cycle (another week to set this in stone)
please add your points to this page
Development Team/Release/Roadmap/0.84#Goals
- we want to discuss these next week
Status of bugfixing
which bugs rest for 0.82
marco will review the open reviews and give his opinion about landing in 8.2
erikos has to do 7480 and 7871
everyone should work on blockers, until 8/27 we can push fixes we have code already for (even though they are high and no blockers) if we get marcopg, cscott, or micahel to okay them. michael is happy if other bugs get fixed; he just don't want other bugs getting fixed at the expense of the blockers (more details will follow in another email).
stable releases: 0.82.1 will be a stable coordinated release (which will help to resynchronise translations), we will rely on non-coordinated module releases until then, the packages for the non-coordinated releases should be announced on the mailing list that packagers can step in and do the packaging work for their distributions
release date for 0.8.2 will probably be September the 17th (more details from michael)
release date for 0.82.1 will probably be September the 5th (more details in another email)
Introducing the new developers
Control panel updater
Design, consequences, profit! We will have guest speaker Scott coming in to talk about the sugar-control-update module.
Thursday August 14 2008 - 14.00 (UTC)
Logs
Topics
Update
Roadmap
Status of bugfixing
Introducing the new developers
Better activity development communication
including activity development mailing list
Control panel updater
Implications for activity developers: How to publish releases
Thursday July 31 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar_meeting_31_07_2008.log
Topics
Update
The usual bugfixing for the upcoming release. Morgs and david spoke with the ubuntu and debian people in order to get the packaging processes going so potential developers have something to look at. Walter has been in discussion with GNOME and a few education groups - more on those topics in tomorrows sugarlabs meeting:
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-July/007508.html
Roadmap
action items:
triage squad
testing team
keep trac under control so that we have a good view of where we are
make sure to get the new release in Fedora
write down the points for the 9.1 release
Status of bugfixing
we need for more testing!
Introducing the new developers
Maybe next week :)
Move meeting to an earlier time
The next meeting will be at 14.00 UTC
Proposal: Mailing list for activity developers
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-July/007503.html
Will be discussed next week or via the mailing lists --
Morgs
19:52, 31 July 2008 (UTC)
Activity Update system in control panel
Implications for activity developers: How to publish releases
Will be discussed next week or via the mailing lists --
Morgs
19:52, 31 July 2008 (UTC)
Thursday July 24 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~tomeu/sugar_meeting_24_07_2008.log
Attending
Topics
Update
People is working on bugs, Marco focused on Browse, he's back full time in the team. Tomeu on miscellanea bugs, worked with Riccardo Lucchese on performance (he's interning in OLPC this summer). Sayamindu is planning future work on the Read and Terminal activities.
Change in the translation process
After changes that break the string freeze get into git, the development team should notify the localization list, so the localization team can update Pootle.
There are some worries about the frequent string freeze breaks, we hope translators will understand and things will get better for the next release.
Roadmap
David Farning suggested that some preliminary work happened on identifying the areas that will be worked on in the next releases. Benjamin Schwartz argued that people should focus completely on the current release instead, and let future planning for later.
Three big areas of work that is sorely needed by deployments are collaboration, performance and datastore. How can we improve stability at the same time?
Benjamin thinks that we should focus for two weeks on planning, and close all questions then.
Walter wants to see documents about the architecture of the datastore and collaboration. Thinks that we should aim for 3 months of design work that end up on a roadmap.
Status of bugfixing
Two major surprises lately: arabic support and provisions for operating with full NAND.
Arabic support includes taking in account RTL in the UI layout, may not land in 8.2.0.
Being resilient to NAND full situations is very important in Uruguay, where machines that get full cannot boot until are reflashed. Several options are open here and we are trying to reach consensus.
Introducing the new developers
No new developers :( Maybe next week!
Thursday July 17 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar_meeting_17_07_2008.log
Attending
Topics
The Meeting itself
First we discussed how we can make the meeting even better. We want to have a fixed set of points we want to discuss each meeting.
update of the week (e.g. process changes)
roadmap
what are the latest bugs where can we need help on
introduction of new developers
Additionally we have topics that can be decided by the developers. These can be added by the developers during the week. The complete process is described here:
Development Team/Meetings#How_to_add_topics
The mails:
You can count on receiving these mails in the sugar mailing list.
monday: reminder to add_topics
thursday: meeting reminder
thursday: minutes from the meeting
Creative commons licensing functionality in the journal
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Creative_Commons
how to get that feature in:
eben will make mockup by Aug 15 (
http://dev.laptop.org/ticket/7551
)
starting Aug 15 paulproteus will port the xisting UI to Eben's mockup.
then he will send his code for review:
Development Team/Code Review#Patch_submission
after review the feature can be included
We will meet for a status update on the cc the 14th of August in the sugar dev meeting
Thursday July 10 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
Attending
Topics
Topic
Thursday July 03 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
Attending
Topics
What let's left for the upcoming release
Development Team/Release/Roadmap#Schedule
Changes in the review process
Development Team/Code Review#Patch_submission
Thursday June 12 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar_meeting_Jun_12_2008.log
Attending
Topics
Update on the status of the ongoing features
Development Team/Release/Roadmap#New_features
How to announce a new release of an activity best?
unmadindu looked into remora
http://wiki.mozilla.org/Update:Remora
. he noted that it's not well documented, and the look and feel needs to be changed significantly (it's primarily written for addons.mozilla.org), and we would need some PHP dev to modify it for our work
Conclusion:
Someone needs to step in and do it if he/she has time!
Providing test plans along releases
m_stone and QA are requesting that each release we get in the stable build is associated with a set of tests that they need to perform to verify that stuff works as expected.
Basically we make mandatory to have a trac item associated with each news in the changelog and each trac item needs to have a testcase in it. We could use some keyword in the comment to mark it so that it can be extracted automatically. We need a ticket for each feature or fix - each item in the news basically.
Documentation efforts for Sugar API and creating sugar activities
fanwar's overall approach: One set of docs for high level functional design of sugar (Human Interface Guidelines), one set for how to's (almanac - which is what I'm working on), one set of apis from the actual code (which will be extracted through pydocs) and also some basic startup docs like those by Christoph in olpc austria.
For the moment the place where the documentation can be found is:
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Sugar-api-doc
fanwar requests: In the meantime, everyone continues to document code using pydocs and also please contribute to the almanac wiki yourselves.
Thursday June 05 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar_meeting_Jun_05_2008.log
Attending
too many to name :)
Topics
How can we improve the review process?
action item: unmadindu/cjb setup review board
http://www.review-board.org/
1. Break your projects into small pieces that can be submitted for review independently.  Submit for review as early as possible, by mailing list or review-board site or whatever other mechanism.
More specific:
preferred way if possible: 1. code a small part, 2. submit to review, 3. get into joyride, 4. repeat
not talking about: 1. code everything, 2. split in patches, 3. submit
2. If you want testing before review, make a topic build.
3. Some new tools will be needed to make topic builds easier to make.  (.img, .rpm, and .deb)
Bundlebuilder: how to create the source tarballs best to not include unintentional files.
We agreed to use an explicit MANIFEST but to provide tools to build it automatically. homunqlus is going to work on a patch for this. We need to try and freeze bundlebuilder to be able to include Develop in 8.2.
How to announce a new release of an activity best?
Deferred to next week meeting
Thursday April 17 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~morgan/sugar_meeting_Apr_17.log
Attending
Topics
Collaborative activities
The collaboration framework
Collaboration Central
Adding collaboration to activities
Upgrading to the new Presence Service API in Update.1
API improvements required? (buddy<->handle tracking, reducing boilerplate code...)
New proposed collaboration API
Cerebro#Collaboration
other features? (now is a good time to add them)
Tuesday April 08 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/meeting_logs/sugar_meeting_Apr_08.log
Attending
eben, homunq, garycmartin, tomeu, bemasc, daf, morgs, erikos
Topics
discuss eben's sugar todo list:
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-April/004909.html
We found out that eben's list is basically not controversial and that we 'only' need to prioritize the topics :p
action item: prioritize the topics
Expose an avatar property for buddies in the ps
daf stated that we have specific support for avatars in Gabble, which uses hashes, and therefore would reduce overhead.
AlertBox for use with palettes/notifications
mockup:
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Specifications/Object_Transfers#Preliminary_Mockups
sumup:
an object transfer error occurs.
create a new palette and embed an alertbox in it.
create a notification object.
attach the new alert palette to both the notification and the transfer object in the frame.
Then, upon the cancel/retry button callback: make sure that the notification is gone, reattach the old palette, take the appropriate action.
action items:
a) create an AlertBox class (probably a subclass of alert or make alert more generic)
b) add support for more complex layout to Palette class (ability to set the content before and/or after the menu independently)
Activity bundle format, autoupdate
Homunq has a proposal up at
Talk:Activity_bundles#Proposals_for_update
two proposals: a philosophical one about where we want to get to, including activity threading with forks, and an implementation one, which only covers activities as long as the signing key stays the same.
Philosophically:
Eben says any change of key should count as a different activity
Homunq argues that still grouping them in the UI will allow tighter control of keys, and that the UI can give appropriate guidance on secure practices.
Agree to disagree for now, because implementation is not urgent.
Implementation
Signatures
morgs has minor comment about hash format (hex instead of base64, for easier comparison
no further comments
homunq will start work this week
unresolved issue: how to store private key for signing an activity?
we need to talk to m_stone .
Tuesday April 01 2008 - 17.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar_meeting_Apr_01.log
Attending
bemasc, homunq, tomeu, bertf, m_stone, garycmartin, erikos, eben, cjb
Topics
Sugar-Control-Panel - timezone
handle root permissions for settings like timezone (can this be done in the background)
What about using
PolicyKit
made it's way in latest Gnome
Gnome 2.22
for this?
Sugar-Control-Panel - language
how to generate the list of languages and their translation best)
desired output: current locale, language in language itself, territory
example: ingles/english, frances/francais, aleman/deutsch
do we make the same for the territory than what we do for the language?
Tuesday March 25 2008
("TTL-meeting") exceptional time: 15.00 (UTC)
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar_meeting_Mar_25.log
Attending
David Bolter
Timothy Hobbs, timthelion
Jorge Silva
Arjun Sarwal
Hemant Goyal
Assim Deodia
Alex Escalona (vergueishon on olpc
here
and
here
)
eben, tomeu, erikos
Topics
Meetings in #olpc-meeting
Announce the meetings here:
Meeting
action: send note about that to #devel-ml, #sugar-ml
TTS
Interfacing with Sugar
Unitarian interface
Screen readers, TTS engines, and any other text grabbing UI addons (Could that mean tty output, ssh ;)) should all be able to use the same interface.
Discuss how
orca
can possibly be used in the sugar environment. (
speech-dispatcher
as a speech-synth backend is supported by orca)
Discussion about speech-dispatcher, and how it can be used to interface with sugar activities.
Discuss some UI considerations for speech synthesis configuration management in
Sugar Control Panel
.
Discuss the magic button for speech synthesis.
Support for multiple languages
How should the process for including a new language work
(This is copied up from the last meeting)
santhosh and HFactor present
Dhvani
, a text-to-speech system for indian languages.
santhosh has already worked into integrating Dhvani into
Speech Dispatcher
.
Dhvani will need to be packaged in Fedora.
Performance
Ram use of any daemons.
Fundamental CPU speed limitations(real time TTS?).
TTS as accessibility vs. TTS as a reading tutor.
Standardized bells.
Short Term Implementation Plans
Discussing feasibility of speech-dispatcher for the XO
Discussion of speech-dispatcher python API
Discussion of speech-dispatcher sugar configuration management
UI elements of speech synthesis control panel
Working on something like sugar.speech?
performance analysis of speech dispatcher for the XO
Long Term Plans
Development of Guidelines for using speech synthesis for developing self-voicing activities.
Expansion of ideas list and encouraging community developers to incorporate speech synthesis in their activities.
Streamlining speech synthesis projects in OLPC community
Community involvement/experimentation to improve quality of synthesized voice, as well as "localization" efforts to make speech sounds more natural-sounding relative to the user
Literacy Project
What points do we want to address?
Dictionary and eBook Projects
Teaching Tools that use speech synthesis
Tools for helping students learn new languages, improve their language skills
Links
Speech synthesis
Accessibility
Book reader feature set
Literacy
Accessibility Line Based Interface
Screen_Reader
Activities/Listen Spell
Tuesday March 18 2008 ("big")
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar_meeting_Mar_18.log
Attending
tomeu, bertf, erikos, eben, HFactor, shikhar, santhosh
Topics
Update on everybody's work
Redesign Home view (tomeu)
Eben has been contributing code to match the UI design.
Working now on visual notification for activity launch.
Anybody interested can build and run inside jhbuild the following modules:
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=users/tomeu/sugar;a=summary
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=users/tomeu/sugar-toolkit;a=summary
Control Panel (erikos)
Working now on providing a fade-out look around the dialog. Investigating the new matchbox that contains much improved composition support.
Develop (homunq): can't attend the meeting but check it out. Search/replace is a mess but anything else, go ahead and start posting bugs.
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=activities/develop;a=summary
. To resume editing on the activity bundles it creates, you need to use the DoppelJournal activity (included in the git tree), which is a renamed copy of journal with the relevant bug fixed.
Homunq
09:43, 18 March 2008 (EDT) "git clone
git://dev.laptop.org/activities/develop
"
santhosh and HFactor present
Dhvani
, a text-to-speech system for indian languages.
santhosh has already worked into integrating Dhvani into
Speech Dispatcher
.
Dhvani will need to be packaged in Fedora.
Would be good to have a meeting next week with all the people interested in TTS.
Tuesday March 11 2008 ("small")
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar_meeting_Mar_11.log
Attending
garycmartin, eben, benzea, cjb, homunq, ChristophD, erikos
Topics
meeting reminder
people can put topics on the wiki until Tuesday morning
erikos will send a message including these topics to the sugar-ml so more people read the topics and can join if it sounds interesting
sugar-control-panel
development:
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=users/erikos/sugar;a=shortlog;h=controlpanel
sugar-control-panel an activity?
Eben made an interesting remark: The new design for the Journal supports actions that aren't "activities" so you are able to keep record of changes you made with the control panel (e.g. you changed your colors today").
Lots of current activities don't have a bundle .xo for download on the Wiki
this got special attention due to the build core changes
how do we best address this issue?
encourage the activity authors to upload bundles and update the links on the wiki or provide a mechanism in bundlebuilder or at another place?
Tuesday March 4 2008 ("big")
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar_meeting_Mar_04.log
Attending
person, task, where
Homunq, Develop, Guatemala (UTC-6)
morgs, presence, ZA
bertf
,
Activities/Etoys
, Germany
erikos
tomeu
eben
garycmartin
Topics
Latest redesign mockups
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Designs
new developments can be tracked at:
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=users/tomeu/sugar;a=summary
Sugar Control Panel (GUI)
mockup:
Changes to sugar requested for Develop
Homunq
11:29, 4 March 2008 (EST)
action item: create tickets for "Journal should let activity bundles be started in Develop". Done: <trac>6639</trac>. Also discussed: <trac>4365</trac>, <trac>6557</trac>, and <trac>2892</trac>.
Speech synthesis:
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-March/004411.html
action item: eben reply to the thread
New LiveCD with updated sugar packages:
http://meta.fuentelibre.org/trac/wiki/LiveCD
hardy packages + xubuntu in spanish
"Faster" branch speedups -- status?  Anyone planning on working on these?
it is on the latest sugar roadmap so we want to work on it
action item: Michael can you comment on what is needed here regarding kernel changes
http://dev.laptop.org/ticket/2276
Tuesday February 26 2008 ("small")
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~morgan/sugar_meeting_Feb_26.log
Attending
tomeu, erikos, garycmartin, morgs
Topics
eben's notes about the redesign wiki.laptop.org/go/Design
does the journal belongs into the shell or is it an activity, Eben?
added a
journal as core metaphor
mock-up image --
garycmartin
1:49, 29 February 2008
presence service
scalability issues for update.1
morgs does want to look into groups
groups would work like friending, there would be multiple groups, groups a teacher can add children to ad potentially multiple friend groups #4043
would be interesting to know how hard the deployment need this
webkit
try to compare webkit
http://live.gnome.org/WebKitGtk
(comes with python bindings
http://live.gnome.org/PyWebKitGtk
) with xulrunner
sugar
accelerators (
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-February/004344.html
)
benzea fixed palette issues (
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=sugar-toolkit;a=commit;h=c9871633e3f3b38bcb8ae388ebeaaa81ad4123c9
,
http://dev.laptop.org/git?p=sugar-toolkit;a=commit;h=826bf9dd4caa07903346a756f34779da3c6c47b1
)
browse: add right click and search
add control panel option to set delay before frame pops in
notifications: box containing an activity icon that pops up when someone is 'calling', could be used for notifications about devices, invitations and adding to the frame,
Eben you had something like that in one mockup that each corner was used for different notifications?
Tuesday February 19 2008 ("big")
Logs
http://dev.laptop.org/~tomeu/sugar_meeting_Feb_19.log
Attending
tomeu, erikos, cjb, ChristophD, daja77, Ridderman
Topics
roadmap:
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Sugar_Roadmap
Tomeu tried to describe the latest mockups for the
New Home view and Frame design.
UI for sugar-control-panel, ChristophD appearently did some work on this (
early screenshot and info
)
Activity handbook:
"The purpose of the activity handbook is to provide you with all the information you need in order to get started with software development for the OLPC XO."
http://www.olpcaustria.org/mediawiki/index.php/Activity_handbook
currently working on chapters about GUI elements and Journal, next update should become available over the next 2 weeks
distribute/share activity
distribute Journal entries and activities
use ObjectChooser to choose the object to share
bemasc was not around to discuss his activity
Message Board activity
the idea is to have some way of providing a persistent message board without a school server or Internet access.
if you have a school server it could be a webpage on the school server
for example, every laptop could broadcast every message board note it's seen and the activity could know to collate them and remove duplicates
passing a USB stick with a portable mediawiki
Disconnected backups
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/sugar/2008-February/004318.html
Ridderman is working on focus bugs in Sugar / GTK. Kind of a nuts and bolts bug -
http://dev.laptop.org/ticket/2045
2007 Meetings
Tuesday October 30 2007
http://dev.laptop.org/~erikos/sugar-dev-301007.log
(all the meeting logs go here:
http://www.pseudorandom.co.uk/tmp/freenode-olpc-meeting.log
)
How do we log the meeting. (see above)
Quick status updates.
Reinier introduction.
#4022 browser cannot open files generated by view source.
#3239 Control Panel, user preferences
Correct way to get access to temporary file space during activity execution ?
Update1. Branching and trac.
Module maintainers. Distribute the release duties.
Managing the build system chaos. (idea: coordinated releases of the Sugar core. What is core?)
How do we bring back joyride into shape.
What API changes to expect before next milestone.
Who is where:
bertf: Germany
Cassidy: BE
daf: UK
edsiper: Chile
Erikos: Germany
hmmmbird: SA
marcopg: Italy
morgs: SA
rwh: NL
Sjoerd: NL
smcv: UK
bertf:		E-toys, implementing tubes
Smcv:		audit/improve tubes usage
edsiper:	developer console: stripping down, composed of 3 activities: Analyze, Log, Terminal
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Developer_Environment
cassidy:	finishing stream tubes in Salut
morgs:		working on PresenceService reliability improvements, Connect
sjoerd:		finishing 
hmmmbird:	WorldWideWorkshop Joke Machine (waiting #3060)
marcopg:	had meeting with Ivan and Tomeu about backups, marcopg & Tomeu do sugar side, Ivan client/server
                (school server), fighting with build system
erikos:		works on control panel, functioning version
tomeu:		next to backups, screenshots
uwogBB:         Implement support for custom keybindings, develop AbiCollab debug tooling, Implement "find"
                support in Write (done)
ACTIONS:
bertf:		talk to smcv about tubes
marcopg:	list of activities, list of modules, assign some sugar + activity tickets to rwh, drop the created xm branch and create an update1 one
morgs:		talk to jg about getting bot up for logs
smcv:		post logs at:
http://www.pseudorandom.co.uk/tmp/freenode-olpc-meeting.log
erikos: 	check for #4022 everything for 'Hint write about using txt with a view_source property' seems in place already
erikos: 	control panel, user preferences:do not move olpc-update into script, fix radio on/off, restart sugar
hmmmbird:	Correct way to get access to temporary file space during activity execution ? should use use get_activity_root() instead of /tmp 
everyone: 	read Walter's mail for clarification of the names (Update1 etc)
module_owners: module owners should create update1 branches as necessary (help:
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Git_Tips
)
The branch/build procedure discussion is moved to the journal/tubes meeting