Title: Marketing Team/Events/FUDCon Brno 2008/Logs
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Events/FUDCon_Brno_2008/Logs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aug 28 18:02:27 <ChristophD>	hey everyone!
Aug 28 18:04:28 <marcopg_>	hi ChristophD
Aug 28 18:04:33 <marcopg_>	waiting for tomeu and erikos
Aug 28 18:04:40 <marcopg_>	they disappeared it seem
Aug 28 18:04:58 <ChristophD>	okay
Aug 28 18:06:42 <--	dirakx has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
Aug 28 18:07:38 -->	dirakx (n=rafael@190.156.119.177) has joined #sugar-meeting
Aug 28 18:09:21 <tomeu>	back!
Aug 28 18:09:39 <marcopg_>	erikos: ?
Aug 28 18:09:46 <tomeu>	who else is missing?
Aug 28 18:09:48 <marcopg_>	he must be having 10th breakfast
Aug 28 18:09:54 <tomeu>	at least
Aug 28 18:10:21 <ChristophD>	greg is still missing, said he'd come
Aug 28 18:13:02 <tomeu>	ok, I can wait
Aug 28 18:13:13 <ChristophD>	I can wait until dinner ;)
Aug 28 18:13:49 -->	HoboPrimate (n=Eduardo_@a213-22-205-215.cpe.netcabo.pt) has joined #sugar-meeting
Aug 28 18:14:00 <erikos>	yup yup
Aug 28 18:14:16 <erikos>	sorry had to get a bit of fresh air
Aug 28 18:14:43 <ChristophD>	no worries
Aug 28 18:15:02 <ChristophD>	let's give greg 5 more minutes and then start, ok?
Aug 28 18:15:51 <erikos>	ok with me
Aug 28 18:19:31 <ChristophD>	okay, lets get started, shall we?
Aug 28 18:19:44 <erikos>	yup
Aug 28 18:20:14 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: what was the wiki page?
Aug 28 18:20:20 <ChristophD>	http://www.sugarlabs.org/go/Events/FUDCon_Brno_2008
Aug 28 18:20:32 <ChristophD>	first of all, anything else we might want to add to the wiki?
Aug 28 18:20:45 <ChristophD>	I havent had time to go through all our mails but think we did get the main points
Aug 28 18:21:10 <marcopg_>	so friday
Aug 28 18:21:20 <marcopg_>	activity startup...
Aug 28 18:21:42 <marcopg_>	tomeu: any idea how do we go about this?
Aug 28 18:21:51 <marcopg_>	tomeu: you have rl stuff we can work on?
Aug 28 18:22:03 <tomeu>	marcopg_: he has been opening tickets
Aug 28 18:22:11 <tomeu>	should have the performance keyword
Aug 28 18:22:28 <marcopg_>	tomeu: do you think that's something we can hack on at fudcon?
Aug 28 18:22:37 <marcopg_>	just wondering if we can involve people in it etc
Aug 28 18:22:38 <tomeu>	let me make a query
Aug 28 18:22:49 <marcopg_>	we won't have many XO I guess?
Aug 28 18:23:23 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I guess each one of us will have one?
Aug 28 18:23:26 *	erikos can bring 3 xo's
Aug 28 18:23:33 <ChristophD>	erikos, great!
Aug 28 18:23:37 <tomeu>	http://dev.laptop.org/query?status=assigned&status=new&status=reopened&order=priority&col=id&col=summary&col=status&col=type&col=priority&col=milestone&col=component&keywords=~performance
Aug 28 18:23:44 <tomeu>	I can bring 2
Aug 28 18:23:52 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: yeah wondering about the fudcon people
Aug 28 18:24:12 <tomeu>	marcopg_: would be cool to find people which know about any of the involved areas better than us
Aug 28 18:24:28 <marcopg_>	yeah
Aug 28 18:24:31 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I'm sure some fedora folks also have XOs
Aug 28 18:24:44 <ChristophD>	question is how many
Aug 28 18:25:09 <marcopg_>	2+2+3
Aug 28 18:25:19 <marcopg_>	those are 7 already
Aug 28 18:25:31 <erikos>	bernie must have some as well
Aug 28 18:25:33 <marcopg_>	if there are another 7 between all
Aug 28 18:25:34 <marcopg_>	we should be good
Aug 28 18:26:06 <ChristophD>	plus as mentioned I hope to bring the classmate 2 running sugar
Aug 28 18:26:25 <ChristophD>	and I'm going to set up fc9 on a 4GB sd card too
Aug 28 18:26:31 <tomeu>	ChristophD: I guess we don't have any performance problems there? ;)
Aug 28 18:26:36 <marcopg_>	hehe
Aug 28 18:26:45 <ChristophD>	well said!
Aug 28 18:26:47 <ChristophD>	:)
Aug 28 18:27:22 <erikos>	Sugar on Fedora will be important i guess
Aug 28 18:27:28 <ChristophD>	erikos, yep
Aug 28 18:27:39 <erikos>	would be nice to have this the leading distribution after the weekend
Aug 28 18:27:46 <erikos>	i mean best integrated one
Aug 28 18:27:48 <marcopg_>	discussions about fedora/sugar sounds good...
Aug 28 18:27:57 <marcopg_>	I wonder if we can get any actual work done there
Aug 28 18:28:03 <marcopg_>	i.e. start pusing packages etc
Aug 28 18:28:19 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I think it's mostly going to be talking to people
Aug 28 18:28:47 <ChristophD>	we'll just have to play it like it 1783 and we're spanish missionaries in south america ;)
Aug 28 18:29:06 <marcopg_>	hehehe
Aug 28 18:29:47 <marcopg_>	first day looks good to me
Aug 28 18:29:50 <marcopg_>	tomeu: erikos?
Aug 28 18:29:59 <erikos>	marcopg_, what?
Aug 28 18:30:11 <marcopg_>	does it sound good?;)
Aug 28 18:30:32 <marcopg_>	or what can we improve
Aug 28 18:30:35 <tomeu>	sounds good, yeah
Aug 28 18:30:39 <ChristophD>	good
Aug 28 18:30:41 <ChristophD>	moving right along
Aug 28 18:30:42 <erikos>	Sugar on Fedora
Aug 28 18:30:50 <erikos>	that should be more in the focus i guess
Aug 28 18:30:52 <tomeu>	perhaps we can add more details about the most interesting tickets and the requried knowledge for each of them
Aug 28 18:30:59 <ChristophD>	saturday: who wants to prepare part #2 of the presentation?
Aug 28 18:31:39 <tomeu>	I guess we should prepare between the three of us
Aug 28 18:31:48 <tomeu>	marcopg_: I guess you already have some items, right?
Aug 28 18:31:50 <ChristophD>	erikos, what do you suggest to do to get more focus on sugar on fc?
Aug 28 18:32:28 <erikos>	ChristophD, just add this to the hacking point as well maybe
Aug 28 18:32:35 <marcopg_>	tomeu: for fedora/sugar?
Aug 28 18:32:47 <erikos>	ChristophD, at the moment it is in discussion 'only'
Aug 28 18:32:55 <tomeu>	marcopg_: things in sugar of interest to general fedora
Aug 28 18:33:10 <ChristophD>	erikos, ACK, will do
Aug 28 18:33:21 <tomeu>	marcopg_: #  [15~20 min] Technical part with a focus on "issues that make sense for the Fedora community" => volunteers welcome! 
Aug 28 18:33:29 <ChristophD>	what about Fedora/Sugar Live-CD & Live-USB? walter thinks its quite important
Aug 28 18:33:51 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: for the talk?
Aug 28 18:33:53 <--	dirakx has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Aug 28 18:34:31 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, nope, for the discussions/hacking
Aug 28 18:34:34 <marcopg_>	I'm not sure what to do the talk about
Aug 28 18:35:02 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: yeah that's good, though the first step is getting good packages
Aug 28 18:35:07 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I think the talk might be a good chance to list some of the technical challenges. plus q/a should be good!
Aug 28 18:35:31 <marcopg_>	technical challenges for sugar or stuff related to packaging only?
Aug 28 18:35:36 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, okay, then let's "talk" about live-stuff but focus on sugar on fedora. is that what you're suggesting?
Aug 28 18:35:42 <tomeu>	why sugar would be important for the fedora education group, as well
Aug 28 18:35:50 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: make sense
Aug 28 18:35:55 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I'd say anything where the fedora folks can help us
Aug 28 18:35:55 <marcopg_>	oh yeah
Aug 28 18:36:06 <marcopg_>	we really need to talk with the education people if they are there
Aug 28 18:36:11 <ChristophD>	tomeu, very good point! will put that on the wiki too
Aug 28 18:36:13 <tomeu>	perhaps mentioning federico's talk about the journal
Aug 28 18:36:49 <marcopg_>	I'm just not sure if the people there are mostly packagers
Aug 28 18:37:04 <marcopg_>	in which case they won't care a lot about that stuff
Aug 28 18:37:14 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, good question. anyone been at fudcon, what's the general audience like?
Aug 28 18:37:21 <marcopg_>	I have not :/
Aug 28 18:37:34 <marcopg_>	I can look at the names
Aug 28 18:37:38 <marcopg_>	know some of them prolly
Aug 28 18:37:49 <ChristophD>	another important question for friday: "acitivity writing tutorial"? how's that going to work?
Aug 28 18:38:01 <tomeu>	yeah, I have trouble imagining how are those kind of events
Aug 28 18:38:22 <marcopg_>	mmm don't know many of them
Aug 28 18:38:40 <tomeu>	perhaps greg can appear later and we can ask him
Aug 28 18:38:59 <ChristophD>	okay, anyone logging this so we can send it to the others?
Aug 28 18:39:17 <ChristophD>	btw, we should really write a mail to IAEP right after this meeting!
Aug 28 18:39:17 <marcopg_>	about activity writing...
Aug 28 18:39:33 <marcopg_>	we can probably explain how to write a simple activity?
Aug 28 18:39:37 <marcopg_>	and we package it up for Fedora?
Aug 28 18:39:46 <marcopg_>	we don't have good system packages on Fedora atm :(
Aug 28 18:39:54 <marcopg_>	maybe we should try to get them in time
Aug 28 18:40:09 <erikos>	+1
Aug 28 18:40:24 <tomeu>	on the ambitious side, doing a gobby clone mixing Write and XOIrc?
Aug 28 18:40:24 <erikos>	i think getting the activity packaging going would be a big win
Aug 28 18:40:54 <marcopg_>	heh tomeu is ambitious :(
Aug 28 18:40:56 <marcopg_>	:)
Aug 28 18:41:02 <marcopg_>	we can try to kick off the idea
Aug 28 18:41:07 <tomeu>	put a toolbar, put abiwidget and urk inside a vbox, and voila!
Aug 28 18:41:09 <marcopg_>	and see if there is interest/skills
Aug 28 18:41:25 <marcopg_>	ok
Aug 28 18:41:26 <marcopg_>	so
Aug 28 18:41:30 <marcopg_>	we need to get package working
Aug 28 18:41:33 <marcopg_>	at least the system ones
Aug 28 18:41:42 <marcopg_>	or it will be *hard* to do any hacking
Aug 28 18:41:45 <ChristophD>	tomeu doesn't like sleep and beer apparently (the two things that will keep us from all night hacking!)
Aug 28 18:41:58 <marcopg_>	I guess I and erikos can work on that
Aug 28 18:42:02 <erikos>	marcopg_, yes
Aug 28 18:42:18 <tomeu>	oh, that should be a very simple example
Aug 28 18:42:22 <erikos>	marcopg_, a nice friday task
Aug 28 18:42:29 <tomeu>	half an hour hacks
Aug 28 18:42:32 <tomeu>	:P
Aug 28 18:42:46 <marcopg_>	erikos: probably we should try to have them before the meeting
Aug 28 18:42:55 <marcopg_>	erikos: because it takes time to push packages etc
Aug 28 18:42:56 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, +1
Aug 28 18:43:02 <erikos>	marcopg_, with friday i meant tomorrow ;p
Aug 28 18:43:06 <marcopg_>	oh heh
Aug 28 18:43:13 <marcopg_>	ok
Aug 28 18:43:18 <marcopg_>	so the technical talk
Aug 28 18:43:29 <marcopg_>	we need a plan for that one :)
Aug 28 18:44:07 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, I think a rough list of the 8 most important tasks at hand is enough. talk 2min about each of them. and then have a q&a. thats my idea at least
Aug 28 18:44:42 <marcopg_>	ok sounds like a good plan
Aug 28 18:44:45 <marcopg_>	can you add to the wiki?
Aug 28 18:45:00 <marcopg_>	we can work on writing those down in the next couple of days
Aug 28 18:45:05 <tomeu>	it's a shame sugar doesn't appear in http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/SIGs/Education
Aug 28 18:45:14 <ChristophD>	tomeu, let's change that!
Aug 28 18:45:15 <marcopg_>	tomeu: yeah we should get that fixed :)
Aug 28 18:45:17 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, will do
Aug 28 18:45:24 <marcopg_>	we should also let them know..
Aug 28 18:45:28 <marcopg_>	that Fedora and now Suse
Aug 28 18:45:31 <marcopg_>	has good packages :)
Aug 28 18:45:37 <marcopg_>	heh
Aug 28 18:45:38 <marcopg_>	I mean
Aug 28 18:45:39 <marcopg_>	Ubuntu
Aug 28 18:45:42 <marcopg_>	not Fedora obviously
Aug 28 18:45:50 <erikos>	yeah!
Aug 28 18:45:51 <erikos>	50min session for presenting OLPC and Sugar Labs
Aug 28 18:45:57 <erikos>	what is about this one
Aug 28 18:46:02 <erikos>	do we have content for that?
Aug 28 18:46:26 <marcopg_>	that's the one I was talking about
Aug 28 18:46:38 <tomeu>	how OLPC is using Fedora
Aug 28 18:46:45 <tomeu>	how Fedora could profit from Sugar
Aug 28 18:47:08 <ChristophD>	erikos, yep, the current discussion is about part #2
Aug 28 18:47:18 <erikos>	sorry..;p
Aug 28 18:47:25 <ChristophD>	I will come up with something for part #1
Aug 28 18:47:33 <ChristophD>	general overview of current state of things
Aug 28 18:47:35 <ChristophD>	basically
Aug 28 18:47:41 <ChristophD>	but I'm open to other ideas
Aug 28 18:47:48 *	erikos totally misread
Aug 28 18:48:00 <ChristophD>	and we can also discuss the details on friday evening
Aug 28 18:48:18 <ChristophD>	let's also see how the sugarlab board vote turns out, thats def. something worth mentioning
Aug 28 18:48:28 <marcopg_>	oh yeah
Aug 28 18:48:34 <marcopg_>	when is that over?
Aug 28 18:49:33 <ChristophD>	end of month I assume?
Aug 28 18:49:37 <erikos>	yup
Aug 28 18:50:20 <marcopg_>	ok we should mention it
Aug 28 18:50:24 <marcopg_>	anyway
Aug 28 18:50:26 <marcopg_>	we seem in good shape
Aug 28 18:50:29 <ChristophD>	yes
Aug 28 18:50:32 <marcopg_>	TODO?
Aug 28 18:50:36 <marcopg_>	we should announce it clearly
Aug 28 18:50:42 <marcopg_>	with logs of the meeting perhaps? ;)
Aug 28 18:51:01 <ChristophD>	announcing clearly at FUDCon or in general you mean?
Aug 28 18:51:17 <marcopg_>	no I mean
Aug 28 18:51:21 <marcopg_>	announcing this fudcon thing
Aug 28 18:51:24 <marcopg_>	on iaep/sugar
Aug 28 18:51:37 <ChristophD>	marcopg_, yes, definitely
Aug 28 18:51:45 <ChristophD>	we should include the log, wiki page
Aug 28 18:52:05 <ChristophD>	can anyone take care of that tonight?
Aug 28 18:52:39 <ChristophD>	okay, apart from the presentations which we seem to have nailed down, we shall use saturday for hacking I'd say
Aug 28 18:52:53 <tomeu>	ok
Aug 28 18:53:00 <tomeu>	I can do the minutes thing
Aug 28 18:53:01 <marcopg_>	I can try to write a quick mail
Aug 28 18:53:04 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: yeah
Aug 28 18:53:08 <ChristophD>	perfect, thanks
Aug 28 18:53:25 <tomeu>	greg is coming
Aug 28 18:53:26 <ChristophD>	by the way, who can I write down in the wiki as being responsible for part #2 of the talk?
Aug 28 18:53:36 -->	gregdek (n=gdk@nat/redhat/x-06c27374dde74f6f) has joined #sugar-meeting
Aug 28 18:53:37 <tomeu>	marco, of course
Aug 28 18:53:41 <marcopg_>	heh
Aug 28 18:53:43 <gregdek>	Sorry, gentlemen.  I am a chimp.
Aug 28 18:53:43 <tomeu>	he's our speech deliverer
Aug 28 18:53:44 <ChristophD>	hey greg!
Aug 28 18:53:51 <ChristophD>	okay, marco it is
Aug 28 18:53:58 <tomeu>	nice ;)
Aug 28 18:54:07 <erikos>	hey gregdek
Aug 28 18:54:13 <tomeu>	gregdek: so we were closing the meeting
Aug 28 18:54:18 <gregdek>	Heh.
Aug 28 18:54:21 <gregdek>	Great timing.  :)
Aug 28 18:54:23 <gregdek>	Sigh.
Aug 28 18:54:27 <ChristophD>	hehe
Aug 28 18:54:28 <tomeu>	gregdek: we have some doubts about the format of the conf
Aug 28 18:54:36 <tomeu>	gregdek: as any of us have been yet on a fudcon
Aug 28 18:54:40 <gregdek>	The barcamp on Saturday?
Aug 28 18:54:41 <tomeu>	s/any/none
Aug 28 18:54:45 <gregdek>	So it's pretty simple.
Aug 28 18:54:59 <tomeu>	and the audience we are going to find
Aug 28 18:55:08 <gregdek>	Basically, everyone gets in a big lineup in the beginning of the day.
Aug 28 18:55:10 <ChristophD>	audience is what we're most interested in!
Aug 28 18:55:21 <gregdek>	And everyone has 30 seconds to pitch their session.
Aug 28 18:55:43 <gregdek>	After each person pitches a session, they tape it up to a big grid.
Aug 28 18:55:52 <gregdek>	On one axis: rooms.  On the other: timeslots.
Aug 28 18:56:09 <gregdek>	And then the audience votes by putting check marks on the sessions they'd like to see.
Aug 28 18:56:25 <gregdek>	Then people move the popular sessions to the biggest rooms.
Aug 28 18:56:28 -->	dirakx (n=rafael@190.156.119.177) has joined #sugar-meeting
Aug 28 18:56:32 <gregdek>	And then people give their presentations.
Aug 28 18:56:45 <gregdek>	If past experience is any guide, you guys will likely be one of the most popular.
Aug 28 18:56:48 <tomeu>	oh, very different from what I thought
Aug 28 18:56:53 <ChristophD>	okay, I'd suggest in case people dont vote for us we head to the nearest brewery and give the talk with the hard core fans there!
Aug 28 18:57:05 <gregdek>	Alcohol is always an option.  ;)
Aug 28 18:57:06 <erikos>	haha
Aug 28 18:57:14 <tomeu>	need to ask for good places in brno
Aug 28 18:57:24 <tomeu>	their local brand is pretty good
Aug 28 18:57:24 <gregdek>	I'm sure our hosts will be very forthcoming.
Aug 28 18:57:29 <ChristophD>	yep
Aug 28 18:58:03 <ChristophD>	okay, so do we all have a basic understanding of what we have to do in the next 7 days? anything else we need to discuss
Aug 28 18:58:03 <tomeu>	so we have many good ideas, we should make sure they are in the wiki
Aug 28 18:58:13 *	ChristophD is hungry ;)
Aug 28 18:58:29 <erikos>	ok looks good to me
Aug 28 18:58:30 <ChristophD>	tomeu, I tried to copy the most important points from the discussion into the wiki, please review!
Aug 28 18:58:36 <erikos>	marcopg_, and i do packaging work
Aug 28 18:58:44 <tomeu>	marcopg_: when you announce the fudcon, you could put something about people not coming being able to help
Aug 28 18:58:52 <tomeu>	marcopg_: for example for the activity tutorial
Aug 28 18:58:58 <marcopg_>	tomeu: what do you mean?
Aug 28 18:59:01 <erikos>	tomeu, +1
Aug 28 18:59:06 <tomeu>	there are lots of things that can be reused across confs
Aug 28 18:59:14 <erikos>	marcopg_, helping putting it together
Aug 28 18:59:28 <erikos>	marcopg_, or providing their notes
Aug 28 18:59:39 <erikos>	marcopg_, i am sure walter has a lot of slights etc
Aug 28 18:59:54 <tomeu>	marcopg_: there is some preparation work that can be done by people that aren't going to attend this conference
Aug 28 19:00:04 <tomeu>	marcopg_: and some of that work can also be used in other future conferences
Aug 28 19:00:12 <marcopg_>	tomeu: I won't be able to write new stuff tonight :(
Aug 28 19:00:25 <marcopg_>	I was thinking to just write a quick mail referincing the wiki page
Aug 28 19:00:29 <marcopg_>	want to do it?
Aug 28 19:00:34 *	marcopg_ swamped :/
Aug 28 19:00:48 <tomeu>	marcopg_: ok will do it
Aug 28 19:00:55 <marcopg_>	awesome, thanks
Aug 28 19:00:55 <tomeu>	will be a very short email, though
Aug 28 19:01:21 <tomeu>	gregdek: what about the fedora education sig? are they well aware of sugar?
Aug 28 19:02:02 <gregdek>	The Fedora Education SIG is Sebastian Dziallas, mostly.  :)
Aug 28 19:02:21 <gregdek>	And yes, he knows all about it.
Aug 28 19:02:48 <tomeu>	oh, I see
Aug 28 19:03:12 <ChristophD>	gregdek, will he be at fudcon?
Aug 28 19:04:52 <gregdek>	Unclear.
Aug 28 19:04:54 <gregdek>	Let me ask.
Aug 28 19:04:57 <ChristophD>	thx
Aug 28 19:04:59 <tomeu>	would be cool
Aug 28 19:05:12 <marcopg_>	gregdek: he is also leading Fedora on XO=
Aug 28 19:05:13 <marcopg_>	?
Aug 28 19:05:20 <ChristophD>	okay, unfortunately I have to go now, I'll follow up with the log later and we'll be in touch anyway... bye
Aug 28 19:05:32 <marcopg_>	ChristophD: thanks!
Aug 28 19:05:34 <marcopg_>	see you