Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2011-04-21
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2011-04-21
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, bernie, cjb, icarto, alsroot, mchua
Contents
1
Agenda
2
Action Items
2.1
Finances
2.2
Ubuntu
2.3
New website
2.4
GPLv3
3
Logs
Agenda
Finances: We haven't had a report in a while and there are some requests for funding: Sean wants a phone number for publicity and Sebastian had asked about the possibility of funding for Ceibal Jam. Also, there are a few past transactions that should be highlighted. (walter)
Ceibal Jam/Sugar Camp: Want to make sure we are all current on what is happening. (icarato)
Ubuntu: We have an opportunity to get some renewed momentum there -- it would be worth discussing. (walter)
The Sugar Labs cycling team: There is a bit of confusion about our relationship I would like to clear up. (walter)
New website (bernie)
Proposal for adopting the GPLv3 for Sugar and some core activities (bernie)
Action Items
Finances
Walter will dig up the thread re GSoC $
Walter will post a summary of our accounts in the wiki and notify SLOBs
i'll answer the fedora criteria to IAEP/SLOBs (icarito)
Mel will publish a process for requesting funds in the wiki modelled after
[…
ki/FundingRequest] (See
Finance
).
Ubuntu
Allison Randal, Technical Architect for Ubuntu, has offered to help us get a Sugar flavor. Ideally, we can find someone to represent Sugar Labs at the next
Ubuntu Developer Camp
, (Budapest, Hungary) May 09–13, 2011.
New website
Sketches at
http://christianmarcschmidt.co
[…]ojects/sugarlabs/
GPLv3
Bernie will send an ANNOUNCE to open a community dialog:
"ANNOUNCE: Sugar moving to GPLv3+"
Logs
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-04-21T19:00:15
and
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2011-04-21T20:05:05