Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2021-01-20
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2021-01-20
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Meeting Minutes
1.1
Participants
1.2
Role
1.3
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
1.4
Google Code-in Replacement Report
1.5
Sugar Labs Monthly Events Discussion
1.6
Communication Channels: Discord Discussion
1.7
Time and Place of Next Meeting
1.8
Closing
Meeting Minutes
Date: 2021-01-20
Participants
Jui
Perrie
Lionel
Walter
Claudia
Samson
Role
Alex will continue to participate in the board. We need confirmation from Alex on whether or not he will continue to be executive director. 
Martin Guy has agreed to manage finances.
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
Claudia is in communication with Alex to complete the W9 form requested by Conservancy.
Google Code-in Replacement Report
The following document was created during the Jan 13 meeting. More information will be added in the following few days:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AZE9xL7AWnwHjQLE8zb6L-hgtdENjLPefKtuEYxhz7U/edit
We spoke about including this topic during regular meeting times to facilitate participation. Sansom will look into the possibility. 
(Samson)
Sugar Labs Monthly Events Discussion
We will aim to share monthly learning packages to support learners around the world, in particular those who are affected by COVID pandemic. We will curate and create learning packages for a diverse groups of learners that includes learners of different ages, interests and access to technologies.
We looked at the different ideas:
More than 20 things to do with Turtle Art (paper by Walter, Cynthia and Claudia):
https://www.academia.edu/9509368/_More_than_Twenty_Things_to_Do_in_Turtle_Blocks
Full STEAM Ahead from MIT:
https://fullsteam.mit.edu/week-5-package-the-world-around-us/
We will invite others to contribute and activate the community:
Sdenka (Peru)
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Sdenka_Salas_-_The_XO_Laptop_in_the_Classroom
Guzman (Uruguay)
http://smarterphysics.blogspot.com/p/olpc-xo.html
Walter/Claudia (US)
https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Math4Team/Florida
Topics for the monthly packages:
Music (Activities: MusicBlocks)
Storytelling (Activities: Fototoons, Story, Turtle Block)
PhysicsÂ ?
Computation/Math (Abacus)
Where do we store/display pictures or projects shared by the learners?
We are aiming to begin on Feb 15, 2021.
(Claudia)
Communication Channels: Discord Discussion
Samson was not able to get in touch with Alex. 
Walter talked to Alex and reported that Discord is not an open source platform. He will do additional research on alternative tools.
Time and Place of Next Meeting
3 Feb in JITSI
Closing