Title: Oversight Board/2008/Log-2008-09-05
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2008/Log-2008-09-05
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<walter>
Is everyone together right now?
<walter>
Who is here? Shall we get started?
cjl (n=chatzill@12.44.50.248) has joined #sugar-meeting
gregdek (n=gdk@wireless-162.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
<gregdek>
Presto!
<marcopg>
hello
<walter>
Is Marco around? And Chris Ball?
<marcopg>
walter: hello
<walter>
Hello everyone.
<marcopg>
pinged cjb in #sugar
<walter>
I put together an agenda in the wiki:
http://sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Oversight
Board/Minutes#Friday_5_September_2008_-_14.00_.28UTC.29
erikos (n=erikos@wireless-196.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
I'd like to discuss some bureaucratic issues first, as this is the first meeting of the elected Oversight Board
<tomeu>
ok
<walter>
We've been pretty good about things like minutes, but let's appoint someone at each meeting to be responsible for them.
<gregdek>
ok :)
<walter>
I'm happy to do it this time.
<walter>
A couple of other things that are at loose ends, at least in my mind:
<walter>
Presumably this is an open meeting.
<gregdek>
I hope so.
<walter>
I didn't announce it other than in the Sugar DIgest though.
<walter>
Should we announce it to sugar and iaep?
<gregdek>
I have no objection.
<marcopg>
sounds good
<gregdek>
How do we handle visitors?
<gregdek>
Do we allow people to participate, or watch, or what?
<walter>
Good question.
<walter>
I think we let people participate, but if we need to vote on something, the board would do that.
<gregdek>
Fine for me.
<walter>
The more minds the better, at least at this scale.
NerdyNipple-f169 (n=urk@wireless-232.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
Which brings me to another issue: I'd like to propose we explicitly invite some folks to these meetings.
NerdyNipple-f169 is now known as _bernieXO
<walter>
The board is a great group, but very tech-centric. We are underrepresented in the deployments and learning.
<gregdek>
As recurrent guests, or from time to time depending on the topic, or what?
<_bernieXO>
true
<walter>
I think as permanent -- non-voting until/if we change the by-laws -- members
<walter>
I'd like to ask a designer (Eben or Christian perhaps) to be here.
<walter>
I'd like Hernan or Paulo from deployments to be here.
<marcopg>
yeah I'm actually sad that Christian was not elected :)
<walter>
I'd like some educators to be here.
<marcopg>
and no one from the deployments
<marcopg>
absolutely +1 from me
<gregdek>
No objection here.
_bernieXO has quit (Remote closed the connection)
<tomeu>
yeah, makes sense
<gregdek>
I especially favor deployment representatives.
<walter>
Could we resolve to make a formal outreach from the OB to each of these constituencies?
<gregdek>
i.e. "users".  :)
<walter>
Perhaps in the form of committee heads?
<walter>
We do have the task of appointing committees...
bernieXO (n=urk@wireless-232.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
The only one we agreed to in advance was membership
<tomeu>
sounds interesting, which would be those committees?
<gregdek>
Perhaps we should enumerate the committees and their purposes before we agree to head them.  ;)
<tomeu>
deployment committee would make sense?
marcopg has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
marcopg (n=marco@nat/redhat/x-665e6f13177f4ae9) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
We have a first pass in the wiki:
http://sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Governance/Committees
<walter>
We never had a deployment committee on the list. If we create one and appoint some folks from Peru and Uruguay to kick-start it...
<walter>
We can ask that they report back at each OB meeting...
<walter>
Same with Learning...
<gregdek>
+1 to a deployment committee.
dfarning (n=dfarning@72-160-221-202.dyn.centurytel.net) has joined #sugar-meeting
<bernieXO>
3
<gregdek>
So I understand.  The goal of the deployment committee would be to serve as ombudsman for deployments?
<walter>
We had 3-4 very strong candidates who'
<walter>
d make a great kernel of a deployment committee: Paulo, Rabi, Hernan, etc.
<walter>
More than just ombudsman, which is my mind is a more reactive role
<bernieXO>
I'd like to get rabi or bryan involved if they want to
<gregdek>
Actively bringing issues to the board?
<walter>
I'd like to see them actively pursuing issues... and bring the important ones to our attention.
marcopg_ (n=marco@wireless-158.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
Not just waiting for complaints...
<gregdek>
Right.
<gregdek>
So.  Are we waiting on volunteers to chair committees?  :)
<walter>
We should not wait, but solicit. I'm happy to solicit members to the Deployment committee and ask them to help write up a mission statement.
<walter>
We need to appoint a OB member to each committee as well...
<walter>
Anyone want to tackle Membership?
<tomeu>
arjun may be able to bring some experience to the deployment committee
<walter>
Yeah. And maybe Carla?
<tomeu>
would be nice to have someone from africa, perhaps julaino knows someone?
<tomeu>
julaino
<tomeu>
juliano, sorry
<walter>
I know the folks involved in several of those trails as well. We need not settle on the details now, but I think we agree in spirit on what to do re Deployment?
<cjl>
Distinctions between Deployment, Learning and Community might be made clearer.  Deployment sounds like "user community" and "learning workers in the field".  Community (as currently framed) seems more like "Participation".
<gregdek>
The most actionable mission statements make the best committees.  :)
<gregdek>
Deployment is clear: "to solicit feedback and prioritize improvements for Sugar deployments in the field" or something like that.
<gregdek>
Others, to me, are less clear.
<gregdek>
Learning in particular.
<walter>
I think the idea behind community committee was not so much the constituency as much as the task: they'd be all about organizing Sugar meetings
<walter>
e.g., BOF and tjhe like around the world
<gregdek>
Then let's call it the Events committee?
<walter>
Is there the need for a separate Learning committee? Perhaps not yet.
<walter>
Events works for me.
gregdek would be happy to work the Events committee.
<gregdek>
Having had some experience there.
<tomeu>
this actionable mission statement thing sounds good to me
<walter>
Quick: everyone else take one step back. Greg, it is yours!!
<marcopg_>
:)
<dfarning>
Sorry I'm late, I will work on membership
<gregdek>
I WILL NOT FAIL YOU, SIR.
<walter>
Another glutton for punishment has spoken... great!
<gregdek>
It means I escape the harder committees.  ;)
<bernieXO>
I shall take infrastructure then
<walter>
So, as specific action items, could Greg, Dave, Bernie, (and whomever -- me?) come up with a short list of committee members and work with them on mission statements for our next meeting?
<gregdek>
I will.
<dfarning>
yes
<walter>
Shall we leave the learning committee aside for the time being?
<walter>
See what the other ones turn into?
<gregdek>
Until we can more explicitly describe its goals, I would say.
<walter>
What about driving the technical/design goals? Is that a committee?
<tomeu>
all committees are learning committees ;)
<gregdek>
An aside: it's "Sugar Labs", not "sugarlabs", right?
<walter>
Yes.
<walter>
But when we get to the logo discussion, we may consider sugarlabs
<walter>
back to committees, maybe Simon has an opinion about the need for a tech committee
<marcopg_>
what's the actionable mission for tech?
<erikos>
walter, you mean me?
<walter>
I'd like to propose that the OB formally sing Simon's praises for doing a great job as release manager.
<dfarning>
walter, would you consider leading the teaching committee, none of the rest of us are very qualified?
<marcopg_>
walter: +1!
<tomeu>
yeah, let's sing!
<bernieXO>
watch out your teeth!
<walter>
The setting of technical goals is something that needs coordinating, but maybe that is something that the Release Manager does...
<walter>
Or do we want to have a committee? That is what I was asking Simon.
<walter>
What would make it easier, more productive for you?
<bernieXO>
we're largely understaffed in the tech team... this is maybe a topic to be discussed later
<tomeu>
I'm not sure if committees work on this one
<erikos>
so the release manager is not setting the goals as i understand it
<erikos>
he does make sure the goals that has been set get into the release
<tomeu>
developers interested in implementing a feature are in charge of driving the design discussion
<marcopg_>
yeah I'm not sure we should a tech committee
<gregdek>
Or stay out for good reasons.  :)
<walter>
Not setting... I misspoke... but making sure they are clearly articulated, so he/she can do his/her job
<tomeu>
in a more informal way, I think
<bernieXO>
tomeu: i'd follow the old mantra of not touching what is not broken
<walter>
+1
<erikos>
walter, ok
<tomeu>
yeah, perhaps that's what I had in my mind
<walter>
Let's leave it for now.
<bernieXO>
the sugar hackers have been coordinating themselves impressively so far
<walter>
Very well coordinated... a pleasure to watch
<tomeu>
we are just too tired to fight for long...
<tomeu>
;)
<erikos>
i can keep on doing what i did during this release if people were worried about that
marcopg has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<walter>
If you are willing...
<erikos>
sure
<walter>
I just want to make sure you have the tools you need.
<erikos>
one critical thing we need is a bug squad
<erikos>
that would really help in order to make the release process successful
<gregdek>
+1 to organizing a Test Committee.
<gregdek>
(Which is a really hard job, by the way.)
<walter>
Let's recruit Mikus
<tomeu>
mchua wanted to work on that?
<marcopg_>
what about hoboprimate and garycmartin?
<erikos>
i was thinking about hoboprimate and garycmatrtin
<marcopg_>
they are both *very* good I think
<erikos>
+2
<tomeu>
yeah
<walter>
We have some very good people.
<walter>
We need to give them a mandate and a means to be successful
<tomeu>
benzea and mtd may just keep sending patches as they feel better
<tomeu>
I missed bemasc, may be busy with other stuff
<marcopg_>
yeah he is busy I think
<marcopg_>
getting graduated or something
<erikos>
ok so what action item does need to be fulfilled to get the bugsqad going
<tomeu>
and Charles Merriam?
<erikos>
what do they need
<walter>
We need one of us to act as liaison/coordinator
<erikos>
ok i can do that
<erikos>
it does fit well with the release efforts ;p
<walter>
So we have membership, deployment, events, test set to take action on
<cjl>
Distinctions between Deployment, Learning and Community might be made clearer.  Deployment sounds like "user community" and "learning workers in the field".  Community (as currently framed) seems more like "Participation".
<cjl>
sorry
<gregdek>
cjl: Replacing "community" in that list with "events".
<walter>
I think the blending of deployment/participation/learning is hard to tease apart at this stage
<walter>
Are we putting "learning" as a separate committee on hold for the moment?
<gregdek>
:
<business_hat>
Deployment == customer satisfaction:
</business_hat>
<cjl>
sorry, I repeated an earlier line by accident, what I meant to say was I assume Walter handles Finance for now?
<walter>
Let's talk about finance...
<bernieXO>
oh yeah
<walter>
The bottom line is I think that the main focus for me in the next few months is $$$
<bernieXO>
$$$
<tomeu>
what are we going to spend the money on?
<walter>
I am getting a number of proposals from folks, e.g., an interesting proposal to set up a development team in Pakistan.
<tomeu>
travel, what else?
<gregdek>
EVENTS.
<gregdek>
Over half of Fedora's discretionary spend goes to event funding.
<bernieXO>
walter: that' _INTERESTING_
<tomeu>
walter: sounds interesting
<walter>
And helping get more developers going.
<tomeu>
as always, I'd like to talk about growing our devleopment resources
<walter>
Not Sugar Lab employees, but affilated groups that want to advance our mssion
<bernieXO>
badly needed
<walter>
If we can raise money (or help others to raise money) to subsidize development, I think we should.
<tomeu>
walter: I know we are not fans of payed developers in sugarlabs, but I think that it could have a big strategic impact to contract someone for the next 6 months
<tomeu>
so we have a much better 0.84 release
<tomeu>
if 0.84 really rocks, we'll have an easier road next year
<walter>
I know this is a controversial issue, but we need the horses and the long-term interest of some of our partners, e.g., OLPC, is not development.
<dfarning>
Yes, I agree will walters last statement.  In fact his main focus should be engaging statkeholders
<walter>
I think there are any number of groups that would be willing to help us help them.
<tomeu>
yes, I see countries and other organizations as the future of development resourcing
<bernieXO>
yes, we should make sure Sugar Labs doesn't become the main source of developers,  but sponsoring one or two for 6 months would be fine
<tomeu>
yeah, I'm advocating for something like a "strategic exception"
<walter>
I was looking into a plan, for example, for the WB to fund the development of SME tools based on Sugar that would advance their mission of fostering local entrepreneurship
dirakx (n=rafael@190.24.129.6) has joined #sugar-meeting
<tomeu>
supporting past releases is draining lots of development resources
<bernieXO>
the Linux Foundation also sponsor a few "random" kernel hackers
<walter>
They have offered to help with Events...
<walter>
(Greg: we should talk about this offline)
<gregdek>
walter: Happy to.
<walter>
But we need more help in development sooner than later and unfortunately, outside of our control, some people are being pulled off the project...
<bernieXO>
walter: who are the developers in this packistani team?
<tomeu>
or redirected to non-sugar stuff
<walter>
We'll need to have the resources to guarantee some level of stability
<walter>
in some cases, redirected, in some cases, contracts not renewed.
<walter>
But we could, for example, channel some of these resources to help build up some of the fledgling teams in places like Pakistan
<tomeu>
I wouldn't mind to spend some times on those places
<tomeu>
helping build the team
<tomeu>
but the recruiting job may be a hard one
<bernieXO>
walter: you know I'd love to do it, don't you?
<tomeu>
we have two people in the travel committee ;)
<walter>
I think we an count on locals to find talent--we'll have to help bring them up to speed.
<bernieXO>
walter: although I'm afraid I didn't have much luck hiring new sugar hackers in kathmandu...
<walter>
And I can work with these groups to find money to support them and the help.
<bernieXO>
I think this is exactly what we'd need at this time
<walter>
As Bernie points out, there is not guaranteed to be critical mass of talent everywhere, but we need to start somewhere.
<walter>
I think Pakistan and India are good places to try.
<walter>
So I have been working on some joint proposals.
<walter>
What should be the process of vetting a proposal that commits Sugar Labs to something or asks for a Sugar Labs endorsement?
<bernieXO>
but if we succed in creating a team outside USA/Europe, it would be doubly as worthwile
<gregdek>
walter: Discuss it in a board meeting and vote if need be?
<bernieXO>
walter: good question...
gregdek is wary of creating process before it proves to be necessary...
<walter>
The other thing I have been working on is corporate money. I am meeting with Chuck next week to spend a day on a fundrasing roadmap/strategy
<walter>
I will have a few different proposals pulled together over the next few weeks. I'll circulate them to the OB, I suppose.
<marcopg_>
approval by the board sounds good to me for endorsement
<tomeu>
after some discussion in the mailing lists, I guess
<walter>
There is an issue with public discussion of some proposals...
<walter>
Maybe I can generalize them--remove the names--for the mailing list discussion?
<tomeu>
I think the broad community can give input on broad strategy and policy
<bernieXO>
sure
<walter>
I think the ideas can and should be public. But the details of whom and where are perhaps more sensitive?
<tomeu>
concrete proposals may be a different thing
<walter>
OK. will do.
<tomeu>
sure, that everybody can understand
<walter>
So, plan on a report from the finance committee at the next meeting.
<walter>
One more detail re committees and the like. OK to reappoint Bert as Ombudsman?
<dfarning>
yes
<tomeu>
if he's interested, yeah
<walter>
I think he is... but I'll confirm.
<walter>
I don't think it has been a burden to date, but I think it is good to have someone in that role.
<tomeu>
agreed
<walter>
Another bit of admisnitrivia: SFC
<bernieXO>
have we been officially endorsed yet?
<walter>
Karen has been out much of the summer due to a medical issue so things have gone very very slowly.
<walter>
I am trying to get the final draft of the agreement for the board to sign.
<walter>
It is not in any significant way different from what we discussed in Milan, but...
<walter>
As soon as I get their sign off, we'll circulate it for your signatures.
<tomeu>
walter: do you anticipate any problem?
<walter>
(Originally, the acting board was going to sign it.)
<walter>
I don't there is a problem... just that Karen has been out.
<walter>
I spoke with them briefly yesterday and they seem to still be enthusiastic about out joining.
<tomeu>
ok, hope this goes forward
<bernieXO>
cool
<walter>
Yes. I have been in limbo re fundraising because of it, for one.
<walter>
(and I thought the pope got rid of limbo at Vatican II)
<dfarning>
I'm willing to be point of contact to SFC so walter can move on to other issues
<tomeu>
sounds good, like OLPC has been doing with laptop.org
<erikos>
sugarlabs.org ;p
gregdek wanders afk.
<bernieXO>
how about the second server?
<dfarning>
I can tie the email address as a part of membership
<marcopg_>
dfarning: +1
<bernieXO>
or would we want to let people go and discuss it only with interested parties?
<dfarning>
will report next meeting
<erikos>
and a t-shirt ;p
<tomeu>
would be now a good time (before we get seriously into 0.84) to migrate more stuff to sugarlabs machines?
<bernieXO>
dfarning: ok thanks
<bernieXO>
tomeu: the lists, at least
<erikos>
well we need the machine up as far as i know to host git as well
<bernieXO>
erikos: the second machine was going to host user shell accounts, secondary services, backups, and such
<bernieXO>
for now, develer is still providing these things
<erikos>
bernieXO, yup - we should make it a solid solution before announcing it
<erikos>
bernieXO, but i am confident we will have the second machine soon ;p
<dfarning>
could someone update
http://sugarlabs.org/go/InfrastructureTeam
I have lost track
<marcopg_>
dfarning: I don't think it's out of sync
<bernieXO>
dfarning: can't do it quickly, my laptop just dropped dead
<marcopg_>
dfarning: we just don't have all the services setup yet
<marcopg_>
dfarning: and we are looking for a second box
<walter>
I just posed Christian's sketches:
http://sugarlabs.org/go/DesignTeam/Logo-ideas#Christian.27s_take_on_this_theme
<walter>
BTW, AMD has offered us a box; just taking time to materialize
<marcopg_>
I don't like the colors :)
<tomeu>
yeah, don't like the colors neither
<walter>
The colors can change... just like XO colors
<walter>
I like the orange we saw in Milan
<walter>
He is going to give me an SVG so we can play with the colors.
<marcopg_>
+1 for the orange :)
<gregdek>
Logotype, eh?
<gregdek>
-1 to Christian!
<walter>
But what I like about it is that it is thematically related, but not another abstract icon
<gregdek>
I like the sucker.
<bernieXO>
haha
<bernieXO>
with the light bulb superimposed :)
<tomeu>
hmm, don't know if I didn't liked more the italian logos
<tomeu>
but the colors are important and can be changed, yeah
<walter>
I liked the logos Luca did for us, but I was never comfortable introducing yet another icon...
<walter>
there was still too much of a distance to associate it with Sugar Labs.
<gregdek>
I'm kidding.  I really don't care.
<walter>
We need to be a bit more blatant with getting our name out there.
<gregdek>
The mark doesn't matter.  It's the experience that the mark provides.
<cjb`>
Hi all, sorry I'm so late.  Catching up now.
<walter>
If we were as famous as Prince (or the artist formerly know as Prince) we could use an icon.
<cjl>
It needs to look cool on schwag.  There is an art to that.
<walter>
Or random Unicode codepoint...
<gregdek>
Maybe we could get some treatments of the logotype in common usage?
cjb` is now known as cjb
<cjb>
walter: Very happy to hear about reaching out to educators/deployments -- my first thought on seeing the board was "wow, this is a lot of programmers" :)
<walter>
I really like: U0E5B ๛
<bernieXO>
a key?
<gregdek>
Is our agenda mostly done, btw?
<walter>
It is a Thai character for end of chapter... but Sugar Labs is a beginning, not an end...
<walter>
I'd like to raise one more topic
<bernieXO>
walter: so reverse it!
<walter>
I had a long conversation with a group in Toronto yesterday about accessibility
<walter>
They'd like Sugar Labs to participate in a proposal and it has far reach... into Linux/Gnome/and various deployments.
bernieXO has quit (Remote closed the connection)
<walter>
Not really much to discuss here, except to raise it as an issue to ask how we might recruit someone who could liaison  between Sugar and the accessibility community
<walter>
They have some nice ideas and we have a great platform
<walter>
they are interested in our embedded efforts too, as they are interested in mobile accessibility
<gregdek>
Are they adding resources?
<walter>
In theory, yes.
<cjb>
walter: might that be David Bolter's group?
<gregdek>
Then I'm all for it.  :)
<walter>
This is Jutta's group at UT. I think David Bolter is involved.
<cjb>
(He runs gok, which is GNOME's on-screen keyboard, and does a lot of behind the scenes accessibility stuff.)
<cjb>
Cool.
<walter>
I am meeting their Brasilian partners next week...
<walter>
I think this is something we should follow/participate in.
<walter>
Apparently, accessibility is going to be part of the Brasil olpc bid.
<gregdek>
I've got a Fedora ambassador who is doing grad studies on OLPC and leads Fedora ambassadors in South America.  Very motivated.  Should we throw him into that mix?
<walter>
Sure. I meet them next Thursday morning in Cambridge.
<walter>
Any one want to take the lead on this theme? Or should I develop it a bit further first?
<gregdek>
I'd kind of like to know more.
<walter>
No takers? OK.
<walter>
One final topic: next meeting date
<walter>
How about in two weeks?
NerdyNipple-f169 (n=urk@wireless-232.fi.muni.cz) has joined #sugar-meeting
NerdyNipple-f169 is now known as BernieXO
<gregdek>
Two weeks works for me.
<walter>
Same time, same channel?
<dfarning>
sounds good
<walter>
I'll post today's log/minutes in the wiki...
<tomeu>
yeah, good for me
<cjb>
works great.  I'll be on time for that one, sorry again.  Pesky developer's sleep schedule.
<erikos>
thanks!
<walter>
OK. Thanks for participating today...
<marcopg_>
thanks!
<tomeu>
one more small thing:
<walter>
sure
<tomeu>
how is the OB going to communicate between them outside the irc meetings?
<walter>
Bernie, can you make a list?
<BernieXO>
cjb: hay man!
<BernieXO>
walter: sure
<BernieXO>
walter: overseers@lists.sugarlabs.org?
<walter>
but I think the private comm. will be minimal. Sugar and iaep seem to be the right forums for most things.
<cjl>
walter on accessibility, there are some local folks possibly worth talking to
http://ncam.wgbh.org/bp/index.html
<walter>
how about simply ob@
<walter>
clj: I'll check it out.
BernieXO likes c.scott's policy of forwarding all email he receives in private to the lists (unless REALLY confidential)
<BernieXO>
walter: ok... or board@
<cjl>
walter, mchua is also someone to drag into that issue.
<BernieXO>
no, ob@ is better, we might have multiple boards
<davidb>
walter: please see if you can get someone to 'wear the sugar accessibility hat'
<BernieXO>
cjl: sure... she also vounteered to be a bug master some time ago...
<BernieXO>
cjl: we should enroll her if she's still willing and available, once we have the bug tracker set up
<walter>
davidb: I'll find someone to be the champion...
<davidb>
awesome
<cjl>
She didn't really get to do the accessibility stuff she had planned for ILXO (as far as I know), it's an impt issue to her.
<dfarning>
I'll look into accessibility this week, might need to pass it off next meeting
<walter>
So, meeting adjourned?