Title: Oversight Board/2009/Meeting Minutes-2009-10-16
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2009/Meeting_Minutes-2009-10-16
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, bernie, tomeu, cjb. mchua, CanoeBerry, SeanDaly
A number of community members attended the meeting.
Contents
1
Agenda
1.1
Kudos
1.2
Filling positions
1.3
Decision Panel on Sugar on a Stick
1.4
Trademark Policy
1.5
Goal-setting
2
Next meeting
3
Log
Agenda
sing the praises of our outgoing board members;
to make sure that important board positions are filled;
to touch base re the Decision Panel;
to discuss changes to the Sugar trademark policy, and
general goal-setting for the year.
Kudos
Let the record show that SL greatly appreciates the efforts of our departing board members: marco, gregdek, and dfarning
<mchua>
hear, hear.
We also welcomed our new board members: mchua, CanoeBerry, and SeanDaly
Filling positions
Before discussing the specifics of
appointed positions
(executive director, ombudsman, treasurer, and liaisons to the various Sugar teams and
committees
) we got into a discussion of by-laws and process. We decided that we did not have a concrete set of rules governing our various decision-making processes, e.g., what constitutes a quorum, etc. so we unanimously agreed to the form a Rules Committee (Mel and Tomeu) that will report back on recommendations at the next board meeting. In parallel, Adam agreed to contact Bert regarding the ombudsman position and Walter agreed to contact David regarding the Treasurer position.
Decision Panel on Sugar on a Stick
We discussed the DP process, but not the specifics of the
SoaS DP
. Several motions were made regarding setting time-limits on DPs and much of the discussion was focused on the merits of having a DP mechanism at all. We agreed to continue the discussion at the next meeting (and we expect to get at least a preliminary report from the active DP at that meeting).
Trademark Policy
We did not have time to discuss
the proposed modifications
of the
trademark policy
. Walter will be discussing the policy with the SFLA on Monday.
Goal-setting
We did not have time to discuss our 2009â€“10 goals.
Next meeting
Friday, 23 October 2009 14:00 UTC
Log
Meeting Log