Title: Oversight Board/2008/Log-2008-10-31
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2008/Log-2008-10-31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now talking on #sugar-meeting
Topic for #sugar-meeting is: The meeting channel for the sugar developers (sugarlabs.org) | see also #sugar | meeting time: thursdays 14.00 UTC
Topic for #sugar-meeting set by morgs at Thu Aug 14 07:37:18 2008
#sugar-meeting :[freenode-info] if you're at a conference and other people are having trouble connecting, please mention it to staff:
http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#gettinghelp
gregdek (n=gdk@cpe-024-088-244-139.nc.res.rr.com) has joined #sugar-meeting
<walter>
'morning greg
<_bernie>
morning
<walter>
ciao Bernardo
<tomeu>
hi all!
jkridner|work (n=a0321898@nat/ti/x-63592e753150a336) has joined #sugar-meeting
<jkridner|work>
hi _bernie
gregdek hullos.
<walter>
hi. Marco won't be joining us, but I think David is going to be here.
<walter>
Any word from Chris?
<_bernie>
cjb: ping
dfarning_ (n=dfarning@75-121-139-208.dyn.centurytel.net) has joined #sugar-meeting
erikos (n=erikos@88-134-127-109-dynip.superkabel.de) has joined #sugar-meeting
<dfarning_>
Good morning all
<walter>
I think we have a quorum. Let's get started, as I have a hard 15UTC deadline today.
<walter>
I posted a few items on the wiki...
<walter>
I think everyone saw the email from Karen re SFC?
<walter>
We still are not listed on their site, but we are officially official now.
<tomeu>
yup, was nice to read
<dfarning_>
Yes! that is good news
<gregdek>
Sorry for the delay getting us there.  :/
<walter>
I set up a stub for donation on the wiki... We have a few other odds and ends to take care of...
<walter>
@gregdek: NP
<walter>
Bernie, how do we set up new aliases on sugarlabs?
<walter>
We need to set up an alias for our correspondence with the SFC.
<dfarning_>
walter, you have admin rights for setting up email at start.sugarlabs.org
<erikos>
walter: for people like me - it would be good to send a reminder to the list - i would have forgotten :)
<walter>
@erikos: did you subscribe to the calendar...
Rabi (n=rabikarm@202.63.242.211) has joined #sugar-meeting
<_bernie>
walter: go to mail.sugarlabs.org, you should have an account
<erikos>
walter: oh i don't use gmail :/
<walter>
there is an ical version too
<walter>
shall the sfc email go to slobs?
<_bernie>
erikos: I think you don't need gmail... it's a caldav thing that works with any calendar app
<erikos>
walter: ok i guess i will just add it to my old-school calendar then - don't worry
<dfarning_>
That sounds reasonable
<tomeu>
yeah, sending to slobs sounds good
<erikos>
_bernie: i don't use any digital one :)
<erikos>
tomeu: me not on slobs
<walter>
david, have you heard back from karen re your list?
<dfarning_>
walter no not yet.
<tomeu>
erikos: no, we are talking about an address to where SFC will send email when need anything from sugarlabs
<erikos>
tomeu: oh sorry :p
<_bernie>
erikos: (me neither)
<walter>
I think there is no harm in everyone on the oversight board getting that email.
<tomeu>
as long as it's not totally public, I think we are good
<walter>
David: maybe we should plan to call Karen next week?
<walter>
Let me know what works for you.
<dfarning_>
That sounds good.  Any time you set up should be good for me
<walter>
Bernie, Seth and I were discussing membership.
<walter>
I think the threshold for membership should be to ask a question...
<walter>
even "how do I become a member?"
<walter>
I don't think this would be an issue.
<_bernie>
walter: I agree to a low barrier membership policy
<tomeu>
me too
<dfarning_>
At this point I was waiting for feedback from SFC about the ICA before raising the issue
<_bernie>
some FOSS projects require the applicants to go on "trial" and show their past contribution as evidence
<walter>
Yeah. But we should go into the conversation with the SFC with a position we are targeting.
<_bernie>
to become a fedora sponsor, I had to say what packages and reviews I made
<dfarning_>
Ok
<walter>
There was an interesting PHD thesis I read about the other types of contributions, e.g., documentation, testing, support, that are vital parts of the community in FLOSS
<dfarning_>
I restart working on guidelines this week
<walter>
OK.
<dfarning_>
Yes the non-traditional nature of Sugar Labs will be interesting
<walter>
Anything else re SFC? I am waiting to hear back re Google Checkout and Paypal.
<dfarning_>
just the pending trademark discussion
<walter>
Yeah. Now that we have a logo.
<dfarning_>
also we need to start looking into partner organization and local support organizations
<dfarning_>
a discussion with SFC on these issues would be helpful
<walter>
Yes. Colombia is not the only instance.
Rabi (n=rabikarm@202.63.242.211) has left #sugar-meeting
<walter>
Peru is interested. Pakistan is interested.
<dfarning_>
very nice
<tomeu>
in establishing local partners of sugarlabs?
<walter>
yes.
<_bernie>
seth seems to be willing to fill the gap for the learning^2 foundation
<dfarning_>
we are interested in formally partnering with organization like solutions grove and resara
<_bernie>
he wants to develop content
<walter>
I am working on this with USMP in Peru and with a team in Pakistan
<tomeu>
walter: sounds good, those local organizations would also take care of local deployments?
<walter>
@dfarning_: yes... a different sort of partnership.
<walter>
@tomeu: exactly the point
<tomeu>
walter: have you already prospected linux user groups, etc?
<walter>
and developing new features driven by local needs.
<walter>
I met with the Ubuntu group in Lima. There will be lots of Ubuntu folks in Boston in the coming weeks... we should plan to connect with them during SugarCamp
<walter>
I don't know the Pakistan community very well yet.
<walter>
But Rafael is driving the Colombia effort...
<dfarning_>
Structurally,  the local support will be likely be organized as 'Sugar Labs - Region'
<erikos>
walter: which SugarCamp - in Paris ?
<walter>
erikos: SugarCamp in Boston__what was to have been XOCamp.
<dfarning_>
this will allow them to leverage the Sugar Labs name and avoid the headaches of setting up their own foundations
<walter>
Yes
<tomeu>
erikos: scott proposed this:
http://sugarlabs.org/go/Sugarcamp_proposal
<erikos>
walter: ok so you guys will meet with tomeu and marco basically
_bernie thinks that rafael rocks
<tomeu>
erikos: well, sugarcamp is a set of technical talks
<walter>
I think people like Michael and Scott and others will be there too.
<tomeu>
yeah, dirakx++
<erikos>
tomeu: ok i see now
<tomeu>
I personally think we'll have enough non-technical stuff to do at boston, but well...
<walter>
I will be in Europe from the 12th to the 19th, so I'll only partial overlap.
<walter>
And I will probably be back in Europe again around the 1st of December.
<erikos>
walter: right i remembered that - we should coordinate maybe i can join at some place
<walter>
I have interest from Telecom Italia, BT, and a new Nokia lead all to follow up on as well.
<walter>
@erikos: I'll be in Dusseldorf, Balzano, and Tampere.
<tomeu>
walter: oh, so you are going to paris on the 15th?
<walter>
I cannot get to Paris on the 15th. I will try to get there on the 1st
<tomeu>
I see
<walter>
Maybe Simon can go?
<tomeu>
was interesting to hear about mandriva in the codecamp
<erikos>
i will check a bit dates and see what makes sense
<walter>
There has been great movement in all the distros... Fedora leading the way for Ubuntu, Gentoo, Debian, etc.
<_bernie>
tomeu, erikos: someone should make proposals of simple tasks for the upcoming codecamp in Paris
<dfarning_>
There is also a netbook conference in paris that mandriva has invited us to
<_bernie>
tomeu, erikos: anything that a team of novices could complete in one day
<walter>
Yes. That is on the 1st, I believe.
<_bernie>
janitorial tasks are ok if not too boring
<erikos>
_bernie: yup - on my list of tasks
<walter>
Maybe we should segway to events?
<tomeu>
yeah, the sugar fedora spin rocks
<_bernie>
Bastien expects to have 5 developers willing and capable to contribute to sugar.
<tomeu>
segway?
<tomeu>
_bernie: a pity 0.83 is unstable, we added some new hooks to sugar that makes easier to write extensions
<dfarning_>
tomeu, smart person talk for 'goto'
<tomeu>
aha ;)
<walter>
I though it was a two-wheel electronic scooter...
<walter>
http://www.segway.com/
<tomeu>
would be very good to establish some presence between paris and belgium, there's a lot of FOSS movement there
<tomeu>
yeah, the prague center is full of tourists killing pidgeons on that
aleph_6510 (n=aleph@trinity.develer.com) has joined #sugar-meeting
_bernie doesn't have the latest adobe flash player
_bernie is a fundamentalist
<_bernie>
tomeu: one important point when we approach new FOSS groups is to have a TODO list of tasks we'd like to get done
<tomeu>
what's about trac?
<erikos>
_bernie: me the same :)
<_bernie>
tomeu: and a simple procedure to get started
<walter>
Anything we need to discuss re SugarCamp? Does everyone have a place to stay who is coming?
<tomeu>
_bernie: agreed, we have done some, but didn't had much luck
<_bernie>
tomeu: mentoring is very important I think
<tomeu>
_bernie: but we should keep trying
<erikos>
tomeu: jumped over ?
<_bernie>
tomeu: yeah even if only 1 out of 10 becomes a regular contributor, it might be worth the effort.
<walter>
Bernie and I pledged to deal with the outstanding infrastructure issues  by the end of next week.
<dfarning_>
I do not yet have a place to stay
<tomeu>
walter: marco and me are still undecided where to stay, would be good if a local said which of the available options makes more sense
<erikos>
about trac - i heard from marco that there are efforts for the trac and git hosting - what is the status here?
<tomeu>
_bernie: totally, 1 of 10 would be very good
<dfarning_>
OSL has our vm up and running
<walter>
@dfarning: You can stay at my place for the later have of the week...
<dfarning_>
git should come online today or monday
<erikos>
dfarning_: yeah!!!
<tomeu>
nice ;)
<erikos>
dfarning_: thanks so much for these efforts - this will be a huge step!
<_bernie>
dfarning_: cool! I've been falling behind on my email yesterday but I've seen there was some activity
<walter>
@tomeu: my house is a bit of a hike: about an hour by public transportation... 45 minutes by bicycle...
<walter>
Did you guys see the GCompris email today from Bruno?
<dfarning_>
trac a few day later - there are some version issues between cenos5.2 and recent trac packages
<walter>
We need to host activities...
<tomeu>
walter: yeah, what can SL do about it? do we have enough bw?
<_bernie>
as for our second server, olpc might have hardware to offer, according to hhardy.
<walter>
We have the same b'width as OLPC--we are on the MIT network.
<_bernie>
dfarning_: do you think we can reach the SFC admins on irc or jabber?
<tomeu>
walter: so would be easier to host the gcompris activities?
<_bernie>
communication between me and them has been a bit sloppy
<_bernie>
dfarning_: they keep replying only to you! ;-)
<dfarning_>
walter: what would be involved in hosting activities
<walter>
I don't see why we don't offer to host activities, once we have the server set up.
<dfarning_>
_bernie: you are now on the osl RT
<walter>
It is really just the git tree and a web page...
<_bernie>
walter: no, what gcompris email?
<tomeu>
ok, so if 3TB is not too much, let's do it
<tomeu>
_bernie: bruno had to pull down the activities because too many kids were downloading them
<walter>
Bruno turned off downloads from Gcompris because he couldn't handle the load. He had requested OLPC hosting and never heard back.
<_bernie>
we need to host them
<tomeu>
yup
<erikos>
i think hosting activities would be very important
<walter>
+1.
<_bernie>
erikos: me too
<tomeu>
so if we all agree, can someone create an user for bruno and make some place for him to upload the activities?
<dfarning_>
Could we host them from downloads.sugarlabs.org I think that is on the sun machine ivan has access to
<_bernie>
being an activity author is a natural first step to becoming a sugar contributor
<_bernie>
dfarning_: yes
<tomeu>
and activities are what users really care about
<_bernie>
dfarning_: only problem is that we don't have much space
<walter>
I suppose we can host the downloads without hosting the source (until we get git)
<_bernie>
but it's ok for activities
<dfarning_>
ok good, I promised OSL we would self host our resource hogs for now
<dfarning_>
walter: git is coming very soon
<dfarning_>
_bernie: do we need more hard drives for the sun machine?
<_bernie>
dfarning_: not unless we want to host big downloads (such as isos)
<walter>
I think we want to the distros to host the ISOs.
<_bernie>
ivan proposed to buy a usb disk enclosure and hook it to solarsail. crude, but cheap.
<walter>
@bernie: we have to go shopping next week...
<_bernie>
gregdek: do you think we could get an account on people.redhat.com or similar to host large downloads?
<dfarning_>
who would like to like handle the move to our own get server?
<_bernie>
walter: lol
<dfarning_>
s/get/git/
<_bernie>
dfarning_: me... should be rather easy
<gregdek>
people.rh.c is already complaining about hosting the Fedora Sugar ISO.  :/
<_bernie>
dfarning_: but for now, let's just _add_ not move
<walter>
yes.
<tomeu>
dfarning_: think as _bernie
<tomeu>
dfarning_: we have some new stuff to host there
<tomeu>
moving will be very easy technically, as it's git
<dfarning_>
tomeu: I will try to become one with bernie:)
<_bernie>
and even when we move a project, git makes it easy to maintain two independent trees synchronized
<tomeu>
dfarning_: sorry, I meant I thought the same as _bernie ;)
<_bernie>
"easy" is a relative term of course
<_bernie>
nothing is easy in git ;-)
<tomeu>
_bernie: I think it's the only thing that git makes easy ;)
<walter>
I need to take off soon...
<walter>
Can I give a quick update re fundrasing?
<dfarning_>
yes!
<_bernie>
"git, designed to make forking easy -- and nothing else"
<walter>
We still have no money :)
<erikos>
if our own git is up - i write a new activity only to have something new to host :)
<tomeu>
no money, no problems
<_bernie>
I will move xaos
<tomeu>
erikos: write an activity day ;)
<walter>
But we have a modest travel budget from Pininfarina beginning next year.
<_bernie>
we are poor but honest
<walter>
And I have submitted three more grant proposal yesterday (to the Knight Foundation)
<tomeu>
walter: nice, in what else are we partnering with pininfarina?
<erikos>
walter: what company/org is this ?
<walter>
and one more going in today.
<_bernie>
walter: wow
<_bernie>
walter: do we get ferraris?
<_bernie>
walter: Make sure I get a Testarossa
<erikos>
_bernie: yeah saw the page and was wondering as well ;p
<walter>
Pininfarina designs jets too. And speed boats, so our travel woes are over!!
<dfarning_>
I have also advocated the position that it is hard to make spending mistakes when one has no money
<walter>
but they also design toothbrushes...
<walter>
And maybe Sugar-enabled devices...
<_bernie>
"meanwhile, the SLOBs are riding on their invisible jet to a their secret headquarters..."
<walter>
We just use our "transporter". Beam me up, Bernie.
<_bernie>
"oops, I had the wrong version of libcompress.so... you're screwed"
<tomeu>
ok, we are going to be rich and famous soon, what else?
<walter>
Anyway, I'll be talking to several more funding agencies in the coming weeks. And I am starting to push on industry--for in kind support, i.e., engineers. Some interest from BT just yesterday.
<tomeu>
oh, nice
<walter>
I didn't write up much of a trip report yet from Peru--but lots of great stuff happening there.
<walter>
I'll try to get something written up this weekend: I have some data on how children are learning with Sugar
<walter>
dramatic numbers!
<_bernie>
nice
<dfarning_>
walter: in kind support will be very helpful - dependable engineering support - without us allowing ourselves to close ranks
<erikos>
walter: looking forward to that
<gregdek>
In kind as important or more important than cash, in many cases.
<gregdek>
imho.
<walter>
Yeah. Bernie and I go to Resara on Monday...
<_bernie>
When we have a moment, I'd like to introduce jkridner and aleph.  They have been lurking on the channel for a while.
<walter>
@gregdek: the RH example being one :)
<tomeu>
wonder if we could get some of the .uy teachers in translating, aggreggating lesson plans, etc
<walter>
Where would we be without RH?
<tomeu>
sure, for manning, in kind is best
<gregdek>
:)
<_bernie>
Jason Kridner is the FOSS lead at Texsas Instruments.  They hosted our talk at ESC Boston
<erikos>
_bernie: did you make new friends in the embedded world ? ;p
<walter>
The Peru team is doing great material too.
<walter>
And there is a translation project at IBM I am tapping into.
<walter>
Engish/Arabic only to start...
<_bernie>
Stefano "aleph" Fedrigo has been helping out with the Sugar ->
BB port, and before that he helped me with my X11 work at 1cc
<tomeu>
walter: any progress in getting more teachers from peru in olpc-sur?
<walter>
Well. I need to go. Can someone transcribe the notes after this point in the wiki?
<walter>
@tomeu: yes. More Peru engagement for one...
<tomeu>
hi jkridner|work, aleph_6510
<walter>
Sugar_Labs/OversightBoard/Minutes/Log-2008-10-31
<erikos>
welcome jkridner|work, aleph_6510
<tomeu>
walter: I can take care of that, will be around for at least one more half an hour
<_bernie>
Walter and Jason had incompatible schedules this week so they couldn't meet in person
<walter>
@tomeu: I'll take care of the formating later...
<tomeu>
TI/BB may be interesting for deployers of Sugar interested in crafting their own devices
<walter>
ciao
<tomeu>
fine, see you
<_bernie>
(jason was on a phone call a few minutes ago... might still be busy)
<_bernie>
uh, are we finished already?
<_bernie>
;-)
<tomeu>
well, I wanted to hear about the BugSquad
<dfarning_>
tomeu: yes the TI relationship is premised on embedded developers and designers building embedded devices running sugar
<tomeu>
as it's in the agenda...
<_bernie>
I have time
<_bernie>
dfarning_: that's my expectation too.
<tomeu>
the XO hardware is very sweet, but there must be ways of improving it ;)
<_bernie>
dfarning_: the chip maker reference designs often turn into dozens of products from different companies in the same industry.
<erikos>
tomeu: i have not kept up with the bugsquad lately
<aleph_6510>
hello all! Nice to meet you :-)
<_bernie>
and clearly soon or later we'll see a generation of non-x86 ultraportables
<erikos>
tomeu: maybe with the new development release we have something to test and i can coordinate and update a bit
<tomeu>
erikos: maybe later in the cycle, and once we have trac
<dfarning_>
hey aleph_6510 thanks for helping _bernie on the beagle board
<_bernie>
aleph_6510: thanks for all your help
<tomeu>
erikos: wonder if there are people interested in packaging 0.83.1 in distros
<tomeu>
_bernie, aleph_6510: how well does sugar run on it?
<_bernie>
tomeu: we already have that in fedora right? I'm just a fedora developer...
<tomeu>
_bernie: no 0.83 packages yet in fedora, but we could do
<_bernie>
perhaps I should find the time and use this opportunity to learn packaging for debian/ubuntu
<tomeu>
_bernie: would be nice to update sugar on joyride
<tomeu>
_bernie: the problem is that this requires NM 0.7
<erikos>
tomeu: yeah was just thinking about the packing issue as well
<tomeu>
_bernie: and joyride is now F9+NM 0.6
<_bernie>
tomeu: ok I'll talk with cscott about it
<erikos>
tomeu: NM is ready soon
<_bernie>
tomeu: I'm sure we can coordinate this
<tomeu>
_bernie: nice, I can help with sugar rpms
<_bernie>
F9 normally would come with NM 0.7... we downgraded it because sugar was not yet ready
<tomeu>
oh, ok
<dfarning_>
_bernie: Jonas is keeping up with the debian packages he is smart but quirky
<tomeu>
_bernie: I actually tried to install NM 0.7 in joyride, but didn't managed to get it to work
<dfarning_>
The SugarTeam at ubuntu has recently gotten up to spead
<aleph_6510>
dfarning_: I think Sugar is a wonderful project... I look forward contribute someway
<_bernie>
aleph_6510: when you have time, we have bugs
<dfarning_>
aleph_6510: we also look forward to your help:)
<_bernie>
or missing features
<aleph_6510>
Nice, I'm good at debugging ;-)
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: what are your interests? we can think something fun and useful
<jkridner|work>
hi tomeu, erikos
<jkridner|work>
nice to meet you all.
*	jkridner|work was on a phone call earlier.
<dfarning_>
jkridner|work: how did you feel that the sugar on beagleboard talk went?
<jkridner|work>
I think it was quite interesting, but needed more activities loaded on the card to get people familiar with Sugar.
<jkridner|work>
It was certainly able to reach a few people in the audience who had a lot of interest and cornered Bernie after the talk.
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: low level and system stuff. I'm very proficient with C/C++, but a beginner in python.  Anyway I could take the chance to learn something of it
<jkridner|work>
others were confused how education and embedded systems overlapped.
<dfarning_>
I have jumped on a education thread on the beagleboard to try gathering support
<jkridner|work>
most people were very interested in playing with the interface, but were stymied by not having activities installed and no net/serial connection as the lab was setup.
<tomeu>
jkridner|work: was mentioned the possibility of doing custom UIs similar to Sugar for non-educational stuff?
<jkridner|work>
that is a very interesting area to me.
<jkridner|work>
of course, non-educational stuff is still educational stuff too. :)
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: from the links in Goals, you can see what we are up to in this release:
http://sugarlabs.org/go/DevelopmentTeam/Release/Roadmap/0.84#Goals
<tomeu>
everything is educational! :p
<erikos>
jkridner|work: yeah - people should not separate these things too much
<jkridner|work>
things like block diagram building are very interesting for embedded systems...
<dfarning_>
There is a team at the uw madison that is working on using sugar as the interface for medical devices
<jkridner|work>
and makes a nice UI for connecting digital signal processing blocks.
<jkridner|work>
embedded devices should be more programmable and I think sugar can help with that.
<jkridner|work>
some people made the connection, so I see that as a success.
<jkridner|work>
most didn't, so I see that as room for improvement.
<tomeu>
dfarning_: wow
<erikos>
yeah the seed is spread - now we wait to let it grow
<erikos>
dfarning_: what would they want to use it for exactly - is there a page or something?
<tomeu>
when universities in peru, uruguay, etc start to get involved in sugar development because their kids are using it, sugar may catch interest in the robotics department, etc
<dfarning_>
tomeu: It is still in the proposal phase but the have the guy who invented the algorithm for the EKG machine in their corner
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: there is a lot of interesting stuff to work on
<erikos>
dfarning_: sounds promising
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: we are few people, even if there's a name attached to it, you can probably take it up
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: do you have an XO?
<jkridner|work>
eToys is my favorite Sugar application and seems perfect for robotics and many signal processing apps.
*	jkridner|work has an XO, but broke it somehow and now needs to learn to fix it.
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: yes, I do, a B4
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: if so, you could work in performance and memory usage, for example
<erikos>
aleph_6510: for direct coordination - you can jump into #sugar, use the ml - or we have as well a weekly developers meeting
http://sugarlabs.org/go/DevelopmentTeam/Meetings
<tomeu>
jkridner|work: a kid could do fix it for you ;)
<tomeu>
jkridner|work: yeah, watched some video about how graphical objects where hooked up to some source event from hw
<tomeu>
quite cool
<jkridner|work>
tomeu: don't have any of those handy. :)
<tomeu>
jkridner|work: bertf is our etoys hacker, he uses to be in #sugar
<dfarning_>
jkridner|work: I still have the personal goal of seeing sugar on TI server as a controller for lego mindstorms
<jkridner|work>
dfarning_: that is a shared goal then. :)
<jkridner|work>
dfarning_: have you looked much at the NI tools/UI?
<dfarning_>
jkridner|work: any chance that you will be in the boston some time from Nov 15-23?  we are having a physical meeting
<jkridner|work>
almost no chance.  my office is cutting back on travel thanks to the current US economic state.
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: I could look into it... are there performance problems that are not strictly python dependent?
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: I have a beagleboard too... very useful to check for memory usage :-)
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: how much it has? 128?
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: yes, 128
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: we suspect graphics performance is not as nice as it could be
<dfarning_>
jkridner|work: as to Ni tools/UI, no I am mostly working on foundation administartive stuff so the developer can focus on developing
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: you can see for example when scrolling in Browse
<tomeu>
dfarning_: and that's very reassuring!
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: I somewhat looked into Xorg graphics performance on XO months ago, with Bernie
<jkridner|work>
well, I think that Lego is doing quite a bit with NI (
http://www.ni.com/academic/mindstorms/story.htm
).
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: but I'm not up to date with latest developments
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: _bernie talked about last X.org updates being even slower than the older ones
<tomeu>
might be worth looking at that
<dfarning_>
jkridner|work: thanks for that
<_bernie>
tomeu: when is the sugarlabs meeting in boston?
<_bernie>
do we have exact dates?
<aleph_6510>
tomeu: so we haven't a specific culprit for bad graphics performance yet?
<dfarning_>
but I still have an emotional attachment to TI based on the speak and spell:)
<jkridner|work>
Lego seems to be very interested in graphical programming, but I'm sure there are problems that NI solves for Lego that Sugar Labs might struggle with being a non-profit based on open source software.
<tomeu>
_bernie: not yet, but we should start planning
<_bernie>
aleph_6510: nobody measured
<_bernie>
we really should
<_bernie>
with oprofile possibly
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: not that I know of
<_bernie>
possibly comparing the previous build with the current one
<tomeu>
aleph_6510: probably some interaction between the driver and something up in the stack like cairo?
<aleph_6510>
_bernie: yes! I'm starting to remember :-)  I was commited to fix oprofile to have callbacks reports
<dfarning_>
Well, thanks for everythink.  I've got to go poke at OSL about git and trac.