Title: Oversight Board/2010/Meeting Minutes-2010-01-08
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010/Meeting_Minutes-2010-01-08
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, tomeu, cjb. seandaly, mchua, canoeberry
Some community members (including sdziallas and rita) attended the meeting.
Contents
1
Agenda
1.1
Further discussion of policy for using Sugar trademark
1.2
Guidelines for interacting with the SFC
1.3
Finances
1.4
Infrastructure
2
Next meeting
3
Log
Agenda
Further discussion of policy for using Sugar trademark
Guidelines for interacting with the SFC
Infrastructure
Finances
Further discussion of policy for using Sugar trademark
We got into even more details the modifications to the
trademark policy
. We added new language regarding translations.
Action:
Sean and the Marketing Team will lead the discussion about the final phrasing of 2a and 2b of the Trademark Policy.
Guidelines for interacting with the SFC
The guidelines were again mentioned but not discussed.
Finances
Action:
Walter will finish up the budget discussion with SFC and present next week.
Action:
Team leaders will be asked (by Walter) to submit budget proposals for 2010.
Infrastructure
Bernie was not present to discuss his proposal for a new server.
Action:
We'll discuss Bernie's request by email and (perhaps) vote on it before the next meeting. (
Note:
It was subsequently discussed by email, but a vote has not yet been taken.)
Walter will finish up the budget discussion with SFC and present next week
Next meeting
Friday, 15 January 2010 16:00 UTC (
Note:
We will be meeting one hour later than usual.)
Log
Meeting Log