Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2016-04-01
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2016-04-01
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Attendees
2
Agenda
3
GSoC
4
i18n
5
Vision
6
Removals
7
Treasurer
8
Log
Attendees
Oversight board members
walterbender, llaske, Canoeberry, tony376, Claudia, JM, ElVerma
Community members
kaametza, GrannieB, icarito, samsongoddy, Quozl', davelab6, cjl, satellit_e, tonyF
Agenda
GSoC (walterbender, 19:02:09) #
I18n (walterbender, 19:07:28)
Sugar Vision (walterbender, 19:45:27)
Proposal for rules of removal and appointment of SLOB members (walterbender, 19:58:49)
Treasurer motion
GSoC
Walter reported that we had 62 applications, of which 23 seem to be serious candidates, We will narrow the field down over the next week and submit a proposal to Google for the number of slots requested.
i18n
Tony led a discussion of the
Translation Manager
role. Adam and Walter suggested a reporting schedule be added to the list of duties.
Action
Tony will circulate a revised proposal ASAP for an email vote.
Due to the impasse regarding the manager role, we did not discuss any other i18n proposals at the meeting.
Vision
Lionel led a discussion regarding a update to the
Sugar Labs vision statement
. It is a working document and edits are welcome.
Removals
Adam made a motion, seconded by Walter
Motion
In keeping with the board 2010's decision on this matter from a different era, it was suggest that if a Board Member (1) fails to vote and attend pre-scheduled Board meetings for more than 12 weeks, (2) resigns or (3) dies, then the Board is empowered and encouraged to appoint a replacement for this seat. Finally, just a clarification that the Replacement Board Member would be required to defend their seat during the very next election.
The motion passed unanimously, 7 votes in favor.
Treasurer
We briefly discussed a proposal by GrannieB to create a treasurer position. It was pointed out that we have such a position already, but it is unfilled. No suggestions were made as to how we fill that position.
There was some discussion regarding whether or not to give the treasurer a discretionary spending budget. We await an argument as to why this is necessary as no evidence was presented.
Log
The meeting log is available at
[1]
.