Title: Oversight Board/2010/Meeting Log-2010-09-28
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010/Meeting_Log-2010-09-28
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<walterbender>
quorum call...
walterbender:is present
satellit_:listening
<CanoeBerry>
Hiya Hiya
<walterbender>
hi adam
hi tom
bernie, cjb , mchua, tomeu ???
bernie told /me he'd be here today:)
<tomeu>
hi all
tomeu:still in pootle land
<walterbender>
tomeu: thank you for taking this on...
tomeu: any light at the end of the tunnel?
<tomeu>
yes, I think we are close now
<CanoeBerry>
what's the pootle issue?
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: it has been neglected of late and many commits had not been pushed in either direction
CanoeBerry: so the i18n for this release is a bit of a mess
<CanoeBerry>
Sayamindu's been enjoying too much tea at the Media Lab 4pm's Friday, we know where to find him if nec ;)
Folks may want to grab the MP3 later today for this hourlong show on Teach for America I just listened to here:
http://www.onpointradio.org/2010/09/wendy-kopp
Sadly didn't catch all the details, but Teach for America is shaking up US campuses..
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: university campuses???
<CanoeBerry>
Yes.
Undergrads are surging in their applications to ToA like never before.. the dream to invest love into primary schools is one thing that's working in this country:)
TfA i meant
<walterbender>
how does this impact university??? it is a post-grad program?
I could see it impacting ed schools...
<CanoeBerry>
I gather over 10% of MIT undergrad seniors applied to TfA this spring.
That shakes up the dialogue on campuses like MIT.
<cjb>
Hi, I'm here
Bernie might be busy because his visa finally came through:)
tomeu: awesome, thank you very much for looking at Pootle!
<walterbender>
cjb: great news about the visa... just yesterday he didn't think it was going to happen.
<CanoeBerry>
VISA!
<walterbender>
so we have a quorum... we should begin.
start-meeting
I don't have a lot to discuss today except the election and the release...
but I wanted to meet because I am going to be traveling so much this month... need to grab whatever opportunities we can.
topic SLOB election
I can double-check with Luke, but I think he has been tracking membership OK.
I am disappointed that our ranks have not been swelled by teachers, alas.
but I am more concerned about a lack of official candidates... right now, we only have 1 person who has contacted me to say that they are definitely running: SMParrish
which is great that he is running, but we have 3 positions to fill
I will try to convince Rosamel to officially announce... she is great and has had a lot of enthusiastic endorsements.
but I also want to pin down a few more...
<CanoeBerry>
i put my name here:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010-2011-candidates
<cjb>
walterbender: I'm in two minds about letting someone else have a turn, but I'm certainly willing if we end up short on candidates
<walterbender>
(hey ... my #start-meeting didn't start:( )
startmeeting
<sugaroid>
Meeting started Tue Sep 28 15:20:17 2010 UTC. The chair is walterbender. Information about MeetBot at
http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot
.
Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic #endmeeting
<meeting>
Meeting started at 11:20 UTC. The chair is walterbender.
Commands Available: #TOPIC, #IDEA, #ACTION, #AGREED, #LINK
<walterbender>
#action walter is post backlog to the official log since #start-meeting is not an alias for #startmeeting:(
CanoeBerry: glad to hear you are running again!!!
<CanoeBerry>
sorry if i misunderstood the process.
i followed last year's routine:)
<walterbender>
I added SMParrish too.. and I will add a link from the wiki home page...
<CanoeBerry>
Is the Rosamel possiblity real?
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: I hope so... I'll try to contact her... I think the biggest obstacle is she is not very comfortable with English.
didn't we have an auto-translation chat going at one point in this channel??
<cjb>
yeah, "transbot"
<walterbender>
maybe that is enough to get her over the bump in the road...
<CanoeBerry>
Bert's comment is eerily accurate -- English is the de facto Esperanto of global organizing..
<walterbender>
I agree...
and the urban legend is that more people speak Klingon from StarTrek than Esperanto:)
<tomeu>
what about reaching out to one of the english-speaking teachers we know?
gerald, tony, who else?
<walterbender>
OK. I'll do one more call for candidates and I'll reach out to a few more folks (Gerald A., for example).
<CanoeBerry>
What is our hard deadline Fri Oct 1?
<walterbender>
Well, I think we could slip to Monday, but we should respect the process we outlined.
<CanoeBerry>
Apparently 5PM Fri Oct 1 according to
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Members
?
<walterbender>
Alas, I am traveling the next 3 days (to OWF in Paris)
<CanoeBerry>
5PM EDT..
<walterbender>
#action walter will make one more call for candidates before heading to the airport
walterbender:hopes to be able to contact Sean while in Paris
<CanoeBerry>
walterbender: does your manic jetset life include SF?:)
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: I will know soon...
<CanoeBerry>
Cool!
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: I have a trip to Costa Rica next week and then Paraguay before SF:)
<CanoeBerry>
Right.
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: and maybe Mexico before... definitely afterward...
and it goes on and on... crazy fall
<CanoeBerry>
Special Request to ALL for SF Topics -- please add core priorities here:
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/OLPC_SanFranciscoBayArea/OLPCSF_Community_Summit_2010#Schedule_of_sessions
Then the OLPC-SF organizers themselves can piece this together into a schedule!
<walterbender>
seems like an exciting weekend
<CanoeBerry>
And pre-wkd too.
And post-wkd party:)
<walterbender>
we also have talked about the need for a Sugar Camp for developers soon... to discuss Python and GNOME 3.0
<cjb>
walterbender: Ah, deadline coming up -- okay, please add me as a candidate:)
<walterbender>
cjb: thank you.
<cjb>
If you don't mind, I might decide to stand aside later if we have a good field of other candidates.
<CanoeBerry>
Done:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010-2011-candidates
<walterbender>
cjb: always an option.
shall we switch topics?
I'd like to just touch on 0.90 to make sure we all know where we are at...
topic 0.90
We had a slight glitch with Pootle, but it seems that Tomeu (with input from cjl and others) has managed to get things working again...
and we have a candidate to replace/augment Sayamindu, who is being consumed by school
Erikos has already gotten a good start on the release notes:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.90/Notes
all in all, despite the late start, I think it is a significant release
<CanoeBerry>
other topics?
<walterbender>
no comments from the peanut gallery?
satellit_:Soas status: 3 bugs;2339;2351;2355 + no read but works ( latest Nightly Compose)
<walterbender>
let me propose a motion:
We, the SLOB, acknowledge and praise the efforts of the release team for bringing us 0.90!!
<CanoeBerry>
Can we spell out the Release Team's contributors?
walterbender:is a bit worried abut marketing... I just did one interview, but we don't have Sean's blitz lined up...
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: we can mention its leader, erikos... the membership is a bit fuzzy... tomeu and alsroot of course... any many contributions from the community
walterbender:has nothing else today... anyone else?
<CanoeBerry>
Great +1 if we want to vote!
<cjb>
seconded, +1:)
<walterbender>
OK... let's vote...
walterbender:+1
<tomeu>
would be good if people wanted to add themselves to the teams they belong to in the wiki
this is a bit ridiculous:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Development_Team/Contacts
<CanoeBerry>
tomeu: care to vote?
<tomeu>
+1, but I would prefer to see more people joining the team:)
<walterbender>
tomeu: I never new there was a list at all... perhaps it should be linked to from the Join link...
<tomeu>
walterbender: all teams have a list
<CanoeBerry>
Motion Carries.
<walterbender>
tomeu: but no team has a list that is easy to find...
<CanoeBerry>
walterbender: speaking of teambuilding, do you have a favorite bio/pic if you will participate in SF Summit Oct 22-24 in person or remotely?
<tomeu>
walterbender: the team bar has a Contacts link
<CanoeBerry>
walterbender: You should post that here:
http://olpcsf.org/CommunitySummit2010/people.php
<walterbender>
tomeu: I assumed that was how to contact the team, not the member's list...
<tomeu>
walterbender: let's improve it then:)
<walterbender>
CanoeBerry: will try to...
<CanoeBerry>
Thx, email that to me today if poss.
<walterbender>
tomeu: agreed... was just thinking about the specifics.
<tomeu>
but well, I don't think the community has given much importance to the teams structure anyway
<CanoeBerry>
I have to run at Noon sharp here, anything else?
<walterbender>
tomeu: probably not, in general... but in a few specific cases, it has been important...
CanoeBerry: I think we are done for today...
thanks all for attending.
<CanoeBerry>
Cheerio
<walterbender>
FYI, I emailed Rosamel (in broken Spanish)
endmeeting
<sugaroid>
Meeting ended Tue Sep 28 16:00:25 2010 UTC. Information about MeetBot at
http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot
. (v 0.1.4)
Minutes:
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2010-09-28T15:20:17.html
Log:
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2010-09-28T15:20:17
<meeting>
Meeting finished at 12:01.
Logs available at
http://me.etin.gs/sugar-meeting/sugar-meeting.log.20100928_1120.html