Title: Oversight Board/2010/Meeting-log-2010-12-16
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010/Meeting-log-2010-12-16
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discussion notes: no quorum
<walterbender_>
any SLOB members around?
<walterbender_>
hi JT4sugar
<walterbender_>
buendia: the finance stuff looks good
<JT4sugar>
Hello all
<meeting>
* ChristoferR-es has joined
<walterbender_>
Could we do a roll call for quorum purposes??? any SLOB members present?
walterbender_	present
<walterbender_>
hi ClaudiaU
<meeting>
* ChristoferR-es has left
<ClaudiaU_>
Hi Walter!
<meeting>
* ChristoferR-es has joined
<walterbender_>
seems we have everyone but SLOBs here :)
<ClaudiaU_>
is there a particular topic?
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU we were plowing through the backlog of topics...
<ClaudiaU_>
ok
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU see
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meetings
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU once we clear the backlog, we'll not need to meet quite so often.. maybe once a month
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU and hopefully we can routinely get reports from the teams, labs, projects, etc...
<ClaudiaU>
walterbender_: understood!
<ClaudiaU>
I see the day/time of meeting is Friday at 15?
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU since our last meeting was just two days ago, I suspect no one thought we were holding this meeting... and I forgot to send a reminder.
<icarito>
hi sorry im late
<walterbender_>
Friday?? I thought Thursday. Where do you see Friday?
<ClaudiaU>
the link you just sent me... "The Oversight board will be holding regular bi-weekly meetings on Fridays at 15 UTC on irc.freenode.net (channel: #sugar-meeting). "
<walterbender_>
hi icarito
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU that is out of date... I'll fix it
<ClaudiaU>
ok
<icarito>
hi walterbender , hi ClaudiaU
<ClaudiaU>
hi icarito!
<walterbender_>
ClaudiaU thanks for noticing the stale data
<ClaudiaU>
I am glad I looked
<walterbender_>
while we wait, maybe we can have a discussion...
<walterbender_>
icarito: I just spoke with a group from the US D of State about programs they are doing in education
<walterbender_>
icarito: they are very enamored with Sugar and with the Maggie Orth work in Colombia
<ClaudiaU>
how do they know about Maggie Orth work?
<walterbender_>
icarito: I told them there was a strong group of community activists there and that we should find a way to work with them
<icarito>
Marina Orth? the sugar labs colombia team is very active
<icarito>
and ready to offer services
<walterbender_>
icarito: they want to do a project with SMS and English-language learning...
<ClaudiaU>
icarito: so they know aboit Marina Orth thought Sugar labs?
<walterbender_>
I suggested we think about an SMS to IRC gateway, so kids could participate through Sugar
<walterbender_>
They are generally interested in ELL and are working on a portal. I suggested we compliment their work with tools that can be used off line
<icarito>
walterbender, sounds like it is something that could be offered, dirakx do you have ideas?
<walterbender_>
we can work on a proposal to them... they may have some funding in 2011
<icarito>
walterbender, within sugar, like an activity?
dirakx	reading backlog
<walterbender_>
icarito: that was my initial idea...
<walterbender_>
within Sugar
<JT4sugar>
walterbender, Are they thinking on a multiple country basis or just colombia?
<walterbender_>
JT4sugar: they are already active in Colombia and Chile and they are planning a regional conference in Uruguay in the April timeframe
<icarito>
walterbender, a nice idea would be to connect children in colombia / peru / paraguay / uruguay
<icarito>
walterbender, we have been working a lot with identi.ca
<walterbender_>
icarito: and the US (for the English angle) :)
<icarito>
walterbender, dirakx: a status.net activity with a SMS gateway would be interesting
<dirakx>
icarito: we can begin to think in developing such communications and offering it.
<walterbender_>
BTW, we plan to have an Etoys/Squeakfest in Uruguay in May 2011
<icarito>
http://somosazucar.status.net/
is an example of a status.net platform
walterbender_	looks
<dirakx>
icarito: yes status is ”the” tool to use in that case.
<icarito>
its a "twitter" like platform very powerful
<ClaudiaU>
icarito: i like that!
<walterbender_>
icarito: how does one interface to status net? just through an html interface?
<icarito>
walterbender, there is an api and python bindings, yes thru http :-)
<walterbender_>
icarito: seems we could easily add an irc gateway
<icarito>
actually there is one already i think
<icarito>
http://identichat.prosody.im/
<icarito>
ah its a jabber gateway
<icarito>
sorry
<walterbender_>
icarito: one thing is that they (the people I spoke with) want the communication monitored, so we may have to have two parallel worlds
<ChristoferR>
Bye
<walterbender_>
jabber is fine... Chat is jabber
<icarito>
there is also
http://status.net/wiki/Irc
walterbender - but beyond the technicalities we would have to propose how we would use this
<meeting>
* ChristoferR has quit ()
<icarito>
in what context
<walterbender_>
icarito: they have in mind a classroom to classroom exchange
<JT4sugar>
We are pushing that angle with Fargo-Southern Sudan XO project. Fargo, ND is refugee city. Working with Dept of State and tying in Refugee cities in US with home countries through Sugar a good idea?
http://fargoxo.wordpress.com/
<walterbender_>
not a general, open forum
<icarito>
so what are the next steps and how can we help? we can work together on a proposal
<icarito>
walterbender, we can even implement something, right dirakx ?
<walterbender_>
Let me contact them and also forward the documents they just sent me (which I haven't even read yet)
<dirakx>
icarito: walterbender sure
<walterbender_>
icarito: maybe see if you can get the Chat activity talking to status.net
<icarito>
but beyond the coding details, it would be interesting to do an entire project around this involving taking it to actual schools and working with the teachers, that would be very cool
<walterbender_>
icarito: then we can worry about channels, rooms, moderation, etc. as an orthoganal issue
<walterbender_>
icarito: that is exactly what they are interested in...
<dirakx>
interesting.
<icarito>
walterbender, rather than those issues i am concerned with actual real world usage, as an opportunity to take our expertise into the school system
<icarito>
step in the door mentality
<icarito>
not concerned but interested is the right word
<walterbender_>
icarito: yes... I agree, but we need to accommodate their concerns in order to work with them
<icarito>
walterbender, absolutely - i always thought chat is a good base for a status.net client
<walterbender_>
icarito: so next steps are to have me bring you and dirakx into the loop
<icarito>
walterbender, would they want to hire development to accomodate their use case?
<icarito>
or would we develop to be able to be able to offer the service?
<walterbender_>
icarito: a bit premature, but I suspect so...
<walterbender_>
icarito: let's get a discussion going with them and see where it goes
<icarito>
with funds probably an SMS gateway could be arranged
<icarito>
which would be the really interesting thing
<icarito>
as it would offer us some connectivity to remote areas beyond what we have with internet
<icarito>
especially for instance in peru
<icarito>
this was very much the idea behind
http://somosazucar.status.net/
<walterbender_>
icarito: +1
<dirakx>
also in Colombia sms is widely used more than wireless or adsl.
<walterbender_>
dirakx: I think that is universally true
<dirakx>
right
<dirakx>
so let's discuss with them.
<icarito>
walterbender, yes lets discuss it with them
<walterbender_>
anything else to chat about today?
<walterbender_>
buendia has updated the finance pages in the wiki...
<walterbender_>
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Finances/2010-10
<walterbender_>
should we plan on meeting next week? the 23rd?
<icarito>
walterbender, i'll show that to acaire who is interested in being in finance team
<icarito>
walterbender, yes i assume it isnt happening now, that is good for me as I have to get going soo
<walterbender_>
icarito: I am sure buendia would appreciate any help/advice
<icarito>
walterbender, do we reschedule today's meeting?
<walterbender_>
let's just meet again at the regular time next week?
<walterbender_>
I'll log this 'unofficial' discussion as well.
<icarito>
walterbender, okay - thanks
<walterbender_>
icarito, dirakx let's continue the SMS discussion on an email thread, perhaps on sur?
<dirakx>
walterbender sur would be fine also.
<icarito>
walterbender yes that will be okay -
<walterbender_>
OK.
<walterbender_>
well, I send a reminder for next week and thanks all for the discussion today.
<icarito>
walterbender, would be nice to have a sugar labs - spanish channel to discuss services like these
<icarito>
but that is a different discussino
<icarito>
thank yuo too
<icarito>
i have to go now
<walterbender_>
icarito: we have #sugar-meeting-es
<icarito>
thanks ClaudiaU dirakx walterbender see you next meeting
<walterbender_>
ciao
<dirakx>
ciao! all.
<icarito>
walterbender, i meant for email as Sur is wider than just SL
<walterbender_>
icarito: is that a problem?
<dirakx>
>
icarito: remind me also to tell this project to MINTICs in Colombia.
<icarito>
walterbender, not usually - i have to go - see you
<walterbender_>
bye