Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-06-19
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2024-06-19
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 19 Meeting
Contents
1
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-06-05
1.1
Attending
1.2
Absent
1.3
Agenda
1.3.1
Fundraiser progress
1.3.2
Event series
1.3.3
GSoC and DMP report
1.3.4
Election
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-06-05
Attending
Devin Ulibarri (SL executive director)
Walter Bender (SL Inc. board)
Lionel Laske (SL Inc. board)
Ibiam Chihurumnaya (participant, SLOB)
Absent
Claudia Urrea (SL Inc. board)
Alex Perez (SL Inc. board)
Samson Goody (SL Inc. board)
Agenda
Fundraiser progress
Event series
GSoC and DMP report
Election
Fundraiser progress
"As for the fundraiser, I'm sorry to say that we haven't received any donations since last time we met. I did do some research on grant funding, however, which I will continue to do." (Devin)
We discussed soliciting testimonials from former GCI/GSoC participants for the website. Devin volunteered to put together a spreadsheet for organizing outreach.
Event series
Lionel and Ibiam will be presenting over the next two weeks.
We'll do "mid-term" videos from GSoC projects as well.
GSoC and DMP report
llaske: Things are going well for Sugarizer projects. We're on schedule.
Ibiam: Some of the students working on the AI projects have been working on fine-tuning their models, to be sure we get the preferred responses. For the math games, we have some activities that have already been developed, but I'm yet to test and review them.
Devin Ulibarri:  For Music Blocks, we've seen some promising progress on all the projects. I'm very excited to have the students share their progress. They've all done some blogs, which I'll put into our "Sugar blog aggregate" The extra meetings, I think, have helped, too. We've been able to sort things out early and often.
Election
Devin will document roles and responsibilities.