Title: Oversight Board/2010/Meeting Minutes-2010-03-26
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010/Meeting_Minutes-2010-03-26
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, tomeu, mchua, seandaley, canoeberry, cjb
Some community members (including sdz) attended the meeting.
Contents
1
Agenda
1.1
Sugar on a Stick
1.2
Trademark
1.3
Sustainability
2
Next meeting
3
Log
Agenda
Sugar on a Stick
Trademark policy
Sustainability
Sugar on a Stick
We discussed the implications of the decision to make a Fedora "spin" for Mirabelle.
Trademark
We deferred the discussion to the face-to-face meeting.
Action:
mchua will organize the voice meeting to discuss TM prior to the April face-to-face meeting.
Sustainability
We discussed various issues regarding long-term sustainability and informally agreed we need to raise awareness and support for a distributed model.
Action:
Marketing will discuss with .py a PR plan to highlight their local-lab efforts.
Next meeting
Monday, 12 April 2010 23:00 UTC (
Note:
This will be a dinner meeting in Cambridge, MA.)
Log
Meeting Log