Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2020-05-13
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2020-05-13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: This is a re-transcription. Devin originally put this in the body of an email (hence the "quotes"). Headers have been added. The original file format cannot be uploaded to the server, unfortunately.
Contents
1
SLOBS Wed, 2020-05-13
1.1
Formal Meeting.
1.2
Minutes Secretary
1.3
Pending Motions
1.4
Reports from Conservancy liaison
1.5
reports from Ombudsman
1.6
GSoC Reports
1.7
1023 Work
1.8
Sugar Activities Maintenance
1.9
Pay GSoC Mentors
1.10
Other
SLOBS Wed, 2020-05-13
> Meeting will be held on Jitsi.
https://meet.jit.si/sugarlabs
> 
> Meeting is formal unless during the meeting we decide otherwise.
Formal Meeting.
James, Alex, Lionel and myself (Devin) were in attendance.
> A draft agenda, subject to change once the meeting begins;
Minutes Secretary
> * point of order; choosing a minutes secretary,
Devin volunteered.
Pending Motions
> 
> * pending motions from e-mail; meet on IRC every other meeting,
>
Pending Motion: Email motion from Devin [meet on IRC every other
meeting]
We discussed the issue but did not come to any decision because we want
to wait for more board members present to decide.
Reports from Conservancy liaison
> * any reports from project representative (Conservancy liaison),
Devin as SFC-liaison â€“ nothing to report. Talk with Karen on May 20th
reports from Ombudsman
> * any reports from Ombudsman,
Our Ombudsman will be perself available to GSoC students if any
conflicts arise.
GSoC Reports
> * any reports from project teams, e.g. Google Code-in or Google
> Summer
>   of Code,
James is not yet receiving reports from all students about their
meetings with their mentors. He would like to make certain that
everyone is contributing.
1023 Work
> * work required for preparing IRS Form 1023 for Sugar Labs, Inc,
Motion to be sent in subsequent email. Present Board Members were all
in agreement, but we would like to wait for the other board members for
formal agreement.
Sugar Activities Maintenance
> * work required for maintaining Sugar activities,
Motion to be sent in subsequent email. Present Board Members were all
in agreement, but we would like to wait for the other board members for
formal agreement.
Pay GSoC Mentors
> * paying of mentors,
James will inform the mentors about the 2016 motion, and that mentors
need to make an action in order to receive their stipend funds. They
may still choose not to receive the funds, in which case they remain as
funds for Sugar Labs Inc.
Other
> * any discussion of goals,
> 
> * closing.