Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-12-18
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2024-12-18
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
December 18 2024 Meeting
1.1
Attending
1.1.1
Absent
1.2
Agenda
1.2.1
Elections
1.2.2
Onboarding new board members
1.2.3
Fundraising
1.2.4
AWS AI hosting
1.2.5
Next Meeting
December 18 2024 Meeting
Attending
Devin Ulibarri (SL executive director)
Walter Bender (SL Inc. board)
Claudia Urrea (SL Inc. board)
Samson Goddy (SL In. board)
Chihurumnaya Ibiam (community member, GSoC admin/mentor)
Absent
Alex Perez (SL Inc. board)
Lionel Laske (SL Inc. board)
Agenda
Election results
Discuss board member offboarding and onboarding
Fundraiser report from Devin
Updates on setting up AWS for our gen-AI projects
Next meeting date
Elections
As for the election, voting ended at midnight on December 14. Devin informed all the candidates, and all the winning candidates have accepted. Devin publish the names publicly on 2024-12-19.
As for election participation, all but three of the thirty-three people who applied for a ballot voted.
Onboarding new board members
Checklist:
[ ] Copy this document for yourself (e.g. to your own Google Drive) and mark tasks complete as you do them.
[ ] I have read the Code of Conduct
[ ] I've read the bylaws and asked any questions I have about them
[ ] I've added the board meeting times to my calendar
[ ] I agree to notify the ED in advance if I cannot attend meetings
[ ] I understand that participation in bi-weekly board meetings is critical to the success of Sugar Labs
[ ] Participate in at least one of the following groups in support of the organizations. Some examples include:  fundraising, community outreach, communications?
We should also consider offboarding tasks for outgoing board members: an exit interview, even 30 minutes, as reflection. Like, how was the experience for you? What did you accomplish? What were you hoping for that hasn't happened yet? What would you recommend to new board members?
Fundraising
We've received some donations and sold a few t-shirts.
Devin had been writing some articles as part of the fundraiser.But he could also use some help in the form of some articles from the board. Walter and Samson are on the hook.
Devin will be writing up an Annual Report.
AWS AI hosting
Qixiang has made the changes we requested.
Kshitij has worked on integrating the chatbot with Pippy activity.
Next Meeting
Rather than meet on 01/01, we'll shift the schedule and start 2025 meetings on 01/08.