Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2021-05-12
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2021-05-12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
SLOB Meeting -- April 28, 2021
2
Topics
2.1
News
2.2
Finances
2.3
Ombudsman
2.4
SFC
2.5
GSoC
2.6
Ibiam Contract
2.7
Next Meeting
3
Meeting Log
SLOB Meeting -- April 28, 2021
Attending: Walter, Lionel, Ibiam, Perrie, Claudia, Jui.
From the community: Sumit
Topics
News
Finances
No transactions as of yet in 2021
Ombudsman
-
SFC
-
GSoC
-
Ibiam Contract
Ibiam got paid for his work after James' and Alex's approval of the work done.
Next Meeting
26 May 2021
Meeting Log
walterbender: hi everyone
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Hi Everyone.
llaske_: Hi Ibiam, hi Walter
walterbender: can SLOB members raise their hands?
Jui Pradhan: Hi
perrieee: Hello
walterbender: great. we have a quorum
let's #start meeting
A few usual items
topic finances
I need to figure out how to pay Chihurumnaya Ibiam for his work
Sumit Srivastava: Hi all
walterbender: it was approved by James and Alex
I've never made a payment from our account.. need to figure it out
No other financial news
any quesitons?
Jui Pradhan: Nothing from my side
Sumit Srivastava: Hi all
Jui Pradhan: Hi, I just read previous chats... Hope you are doing fine!
walterbender: Yes... hope everyone in India is OK
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Hope you're doing okay Jui.
walterbender: I have many colleagues who have gotten sick or lost loved ones... terrible situation
walterbender: I need to figure out how to pay Chihurumnaya Ibiam for his work
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I think a wire transfer would be best but there's a $45 fee.
walterbender: try to stay safe
callaurrea: Hi everyone
Jui Pradhan: Yes Its becoming a nightmare.... I lost a close friend today. He was young.... just 22years old. It's scary everyone Stay Safe!
walterbender: Hi callaurrea
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Hi Claudia.
walterbender: any updates from the SFC?
Sumit Srivastava: Let's focus on the topic at hand first and then we can discuss India's situation if the board has time.
llaske_: Hi Claudia
perrieee: I’m so sorry about that
Jui Pradhan: I'm doing fine! Thanks for asking
Sumit Srivastava: Sorry about that Jui. Please stay safe. It's hard.
Jui Pradhan: Agreed
callaurrea: No updates.
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: You can ask Devin I think as he's the one who made the last payment.
walterbender: Chihurumnaya Ibiam after the meeting, let's see if we can figure it out
otherwise, I will ask Devin to help
My only other topic is GSoC
We got 8 slots and I think we have the students/mentors selected
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Agreed.
walterbender: We cannot make any public announcement of whom we selected until Monday
llaske_: Yes we've got 8 students and at least one mentor and backup mentor for each
walterbender: But speaking from the Music Blocks team, a very strong pool
llaske_: Please double check one the GSoC dashboard that it's okay on your side
walterbender: thks to Jui, Perrie, and Lionel
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Yeah.
callaurrea: Thanks everyone
walterbender: looks good to me
Any other business to discuss?
callaurrea: Can you share the GSoC dashboard?
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Nothing from me.
walterbender: callaurrea I will send you a snapshot as a private message --- we cannot share it publicly yet
callaurrea: ok
llaske_: Else I can invite you as mentor
callaurrea: I wanted to get a sense of the projects...
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: The ideas are here
https://github.com/sugarlabs/GSoC/blob/master/Ideas-2021.md
.
walterbender: I think I mentioned last time that I was about to release MusicBlocks 3.x before we move on to MusicBlocks 4.0 this summer. I am very very close... just chasing down a few regressions.
callaurrea: thanks!
walterbender: FWIW, we went from ~ 2000 lint errors to 0 lint errors :P
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Yeah you did, I was looking at your refactor PR earlier.
Sumit Srivastava: Rocketship 
Great progress
walterbender: Chihurumnaya Ibiam still pushed a few small changes
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Yeah, a lot of work done.
callaurrea: walterbender are you still doing workshops?
Jui Pradhan: Sounds amazing!
walterbender: the plugin system was completely broken (before my refactor) and I am determined to fix it... mostly working now)
and I need to pull in a few patches that landed after I began my refactor
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Looking forward to testing the new release.
walterbender: alas, a lot of plugins were using mashape, but that is now rapidAPI and behind a paywall. I cannot fix those :(
Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I'm guessing they'd be retired or migrated to another API.
walterbender: We need to find replacement APIs
Sumit Srivastava: Try searching for forks and find the most popular OSS. It will probably be compatible.
Like MongoDB to DocumentDB
llaske_: Technically MongoDB is not OSS
walterbender: I don't want to hold up the release on that
perrieee: Re GSoC; Lionel, I made a request to join to mentor the MB projects, as they’d require design inputs.
Sumit Srivastava: That's why DocumentDB was introduced after it moved away from OSS.
walterbender: perrieee that'd be most welcome
llaske_: @perrie did you add your name to the mentor list of the projects ?
walterbender: We plan to meet every weekday at 11:30UTC with the mentors
and students
for a quick standup meeting
like we did last summer... 
it worked out well
perrieee: On GitHub? Yes I did earlier
llaske_: No on the GSoC dashboard
perrieee: Oh I just did that now
llaske_: That's fine we've got until 7th June to finalize mentors list
callaurrea: About fundraising and before I forget. It will be good to think about it more seriously when we get the non-profit status
we can think about projects/priorities... and invite my nice to present
Sumit Srivastava: What status do we have currently?
walterbender: limbo
waiting on our application
Sumit Srivastava: Oh.
callaurrea: It takes a few months. 
walterbender: at least a few
any other business?
llaske_: Not on my side