Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-08-14
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2024-08-14
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
August 14 Meeting
Contents
1
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-08-14
1.1
Attending
1.2
Absent
1.3
Agenda
1.3.1
GSoC and DMP report
1.3.2
Anindya to present at OSC 2024
1.3.3
Notable stats
1.3.4
Prospectus
1.3.5
Other
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-08-14
Attending
Devin Ulibarri (SL executive director)
Walter Bender (SL Inc. board)
Absent
Lionel Laske (SL Inc. board)
Claudia Urrea (SL Inc. board)
Alex Perez (SL Inc. board)
Samson Goddy (SL In. board)
Agenda
GSoC and DMP report (Walter, Lionel, and Ibiam)
Workshop any ideas for more stats you may want to collect for the "notable stats" page.
Workshop any ideas for organizations to contact once the prospectus is complete. Also, what do you think we may be able to offer a corporate sponsor at this time? (e.g. visibility on website and thanks on our social media channels.)
GSoC and DMP report
A few students are getting extensions for one reason or another but progress across the board.
We are at the point where we need to get some Bernie input re setting up a few servers and services.
for LLMs and collaboration
Devin reminds anyone reading that extensions "should only be requested if there is a sort of emergency. It's easier for everyone to go with the typical deadline set by Google."
Video reports are available [here](
https://www.youtube.com/@SugarlabsOrg-EN/streams
)
Anindya to present at OSC 2024
Anindya will be representing us at Open Source Conference (OOSC) 2024. He will be giving a presentation: <
https://events.canonical.com/event/89/contributions/502/
>
They are covering his lodging. We are paying for his travel.
Notable stats
Collecting notable stats is something that anyone in the community may help with. We are collecting "notable stats for Sugar Labs" into the following document: <
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sTHGBb6V0CW_XAjACq87hXaq_H6ZIuqNU78pyjfWi2Y/edit?usp=sharing
>
If you think of anything that would be "nice to add", please let Devin know, whether or not you have the answer.
Walter suggests that we can mine the GH pages.
And we can tally the GSoC and GCI commits. We probably need to do it through an API for convenience.
Walter says "There is extensive documentation on [using the API]. It is a matter of classifying the results."
Action Item:
Devin to see how to track traffic to musicblocks.sugarlabs.org
Prospectus
We agreed to focus on local orgs.
Other
Devin experienced some unexpected lagginess with Turtle Blocks. A student is helping to test.
Claudia, Devin, and Walter met on August 8 to discuss Ramlose grant, prospective partnerships, and funding. The Ramlose grant is due at the end of this month.