Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-07-03
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2024-07-03
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
July 03 Meeting
Contents
1
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-07-03
1.1
Attending
1.2
Absent
1.3
Agenda
1.3.1
On-line events
1.3.2
GSoC/DMP report
1.3.3
FOSSY
1.3.4
Code4GovTech Community projects
Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-07-03
Attending
Devin Ulibarri (SL executive director)
Walter Bender (SL Inc. board)
Lionel Laske (SL Inc. board)
Bernie Innocente (participant)
Absent
Claudia Urrea (SL Inc. board)
Alex Perez (SL Inc. board)
Samson Goody (SL Inc. board)
Agenda
Anything you'd like to see, anyone you'd like to host, for a future online event?
GSoC and DMP report by Walter, Lionel, and Ibiam
Do we want Devin to go to FOSSY this year?
Code4GovTech Community projects
On-line events
GSoC Mid-term presentation will be this week.
Possible future talks: Bernie, Rubinm Srevin, Anindya
GSoC/DMP report
On Sugarizer projects weâ€™re more or less on time
Lots of good progress on the chat projects (for Sugar Chat and for Sugar Pippy);
there are several new math games -- perhaps Ibiam can provide the details;
the RPi guys are killing it.
Re MB projects, the Make Your Own Lesson Plan project is starting to get useful.
The Midi import is already working well enough as to provide basic utility so we'll be able to move to the sing to create music blocks phase of that project soon.
ABC import is also coming along -- I encouraged moving to the generative phase for that project as well.
The collaboration framework has passed some technical hurdles so it should move quickly now.
Oh, and the MB4 project... slow but steady progress on block generation.
Tincho says the flatpak project is going well.
FOSSY
Congratulations, your [Devin's] talk titled "Mentoring youth: The FOSS strategy we've been looking for" in the track "FOSS in Education" for FOSSY '24 has been accepted!
Devin will pull together a budget. Seems like a good fit for us.
Code4GovTech Community projects
Code4GovTech invited us to offer issues for their community outside of the DMP program. It doesn't cost anything for us. Basically, we use [this template](
https://github.com/Code4GovTech/C4GT/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/c4gt_community.yml
) and then using C4GT Community label ([example](
https://github.com/SamagraX-Stencil/stencil/issues/56
)).
We will need to coordinate with the students for the DMP "Midpoint Project Presentations" (end of July) and it would be good to go in as a group.