Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2024-05-22
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2024-05-22
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
May 22 2024 meeting
1.1
Attending
1.2
Absent
1.3
Agenda
1.4
Discussion
1.4.1
Fundraiser
1.4.2
GSoC and DMP report
1.4.3
Mail and Phone
1.4.4
Upcoming conferences=
1.4.5
Newsletter
May 22 2024 meeting
Link:
https://matrix.to/#/!leczFRLARMQIeUpVdG:matrix.org/$YoZP29lV5HN6awUlZf9NYkIN2zJwhQulYO7HmTKJXbo?via=matrix.org&via=gitter.im&via=srev.in
Attending
Devin Ulibarri (SL executive director)
Walter Bender (SL Inc. board)
Claudia Urrea (SL Inc. board)
Lionel Laske (SL Inc. board)
Ibiam Chihurumnaya (participant)
Absent
Alex Perez (SL Inc. board)
Samson Goddy (SL Inc. board)
Agenda
Fundraiser progress report by Devin
GSoC and DMP report by Walter, Lionel, and Ibiam
Upcoming conferences
Newsletter
Discuss the newsletter, communication in general
Discussion
Fundraiser
From Devin: "As for fundraiser report, it's been slow-going on the "fundraiser" part (we haven't received any donations yet), but in terms of raised awareness, what we've been doing seems to be effective. We've received more followers to all our social media channels, for example, and we've received positive engagement so far. Plus, we now have some videos to point to for various topics.
"This Friday, we're hosting Lylian Peraza of OLPC. She is confirmed, and she's been reposting to her channels as well.
"Grants researched are being collected here:
our list
"We're planning to keep doing the Friday broadcasts, featuring our GSoC projects in June and July. I am also putting in for grants (like the AWS grant, and I asked Python group whether or not we are a good candidate). I'll also plan to run a draft prospectus with the board (for corporate sponsorships) <-- I was waiting a bit to understand how we might recognize sponsors on our website, which I understand a /teeny/ bit better now"
GSoC and DMP report
We now have 3 DMP interns.
We have created the following meeting schedule:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16LxqRe9G3QMPNKpI8nLgLLSiW0xh422ez8se0MHOUQM/edit#gid=0
Mail and Phone
Devin reported that sometimes mail doesn't reach us.
From Devin: "[E]ven if you put in the right address, some forms automatically drop the last digits. They have this FAQ about it:
https://scanmailboxes.com/support/docs/some-of-the-sender-or-the-vendor-will-not-recognize-my-new-scan-mailboxes-address-due-to-their-automatic-verification-system-what-should-i-do/
"We can do "watchful waiting" and I can try to correct things for a few months going forward, but just know that I'm flagging this for now as a potential issue
"BTW, we have a phone number now. It's 617-702-4088, and it's $5 a month via JMP. I'll update it on our website.
"It receives both calls and text. Theoretically, anyone with a password could pick up the phone (but there's some technical work to getting that set up). I have it set up on my own phone."
Upcoming conferences=
7/9-7/12: Constructing Modern Knowledge -- Devin is looking into whether or not that week will work for him.
10/4 GSoC Summer -- Devin will be our rep.
Newsletter
Devin made a draft of a newsletter:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mU_qH-ZXiLdkfbSpIY5v81QxFhAo9-KZyeHaOnygHcw/edit
The framework is:
Intro
Recent Sugar-related news with links
Help wanted
Upcoming events (both Sugar-hosted and education-related)
Outro (About Sugar Labs)
Meeting ended at 16:23 ET