Title: Oversight Board/2008/Meeting Minutes-2008-09-05
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2008/Meeting_Minutes-2008-09-05
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Oversight Board Meeting Minutes 2008-09-05
1.1
Administrative
1.2
Infrastructure status
1.3
Key issues
Oversight Board Meeting Minutes 2008-09-05
Logs
Oversight Board/2008/Log-2008-09-05
Attending
walter, gregdek, marcopg, tomeu, erikos, bernieXO (AKA NerdyNipple-f169), dfarning, cjb, cjl, davidb
The Oversight Board acknowledged and celebrated the great job Simon has been doing on managing the 0.82 release.
Administrative
OB meeting protocols
We'll appoint someone to take minutes each meeting; We'll announce the meetings on the Sugar and IAEP lists (they are already announced on Sugar Digest and in the wiki). Agendas are set in the wiki.
Additional OB representatives (learning, design, deployment)
We agreed that having representation from these areas is important. We'll make explicit invitations to ensure these voices are heard. Walter will follow up.
Finalize SFC agreement
Moving ahead, but still waiting for final agreement from SFC for the OB to sign.
Appoint (Membership)
Dfarning will organize/liaison with the Membership committee; Gregdek will organize/liaison with the Events committee; Bernie will organize/liaison with the Infrastructure committee; Simon will organize/liaison with the Test committee; Walter will organize/liaison with the Deployment committee
Appoint Ombudsman
If Bert is willing, we'd like to make his acting role permanent.
Proposals
We discussed a process whereby Sugar Labs vets proposals: a public discussion of the general ideas and an approval by the OB regarding the specifics.
Fund raising
Walter will prepare a report for the next meeting about various possibilities. The idea of helping external groups form to share in the development and support burden was seen as a favorable strategy. Raising money for "events" was seen as important.
Logo
We discussed a new logo proposal (See
sugar
labs
) and agreed to have Christian Schmidt take charge of this decision.
Infrastructure status
Hardware
Hosting
@sugarlabs.org
We agreed to give members email addresses at sugarlabs.org
etc.
Key issues
Engineering
Ports
Stability
QA
Updates
Accessibility
Walter will follow up with a UT proposal to partner in an accessibility proposal. We need someone to volunteer to champion this effort.
growing the community of contributors
Learning
Outreach
Feedback
growing the community of contributors