Title: Oversight Board/2010/Meeting Log-2010-12-23
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2010/Meeting_Log-2010-12-23
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
informal meeting
<walterbender_>
hola todas
<walterbender_>
while we are waiting for our quorum, any regex hackers out there?
<walterbender_>
I am a bit rusty and I have a simple problem I am trying to solve...
<jelkner>
hi walterbender
<walterbender_>
hi jeff
<walterbender_>
jelkner: I may be in town early Feb.
<jelkner>
great
<walterbender_>
jelkner: the State Dept. is holding an education event...
<jelkner>
we should tell mike lee
<walterbender_>
I'll forward the details as soon as I have them
<jelkner>
and see if we can plan a meeting while you are here
<walterbender_>
jelkner: we've been discussing various Learn English initiatives
<jelkner>
i'm very interested
<jelkner>
i work with ESL students most of the day
<walterbender_>
jelkner: check out
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting-log-2010-12-16
<jelkner>
if you have any activities you would like me to try with our students
<walterbender_>
hola icarito
<jelkner>
let me know
<icarito>
hello walterbender
<walterbender_>
icarito: I heard back from Suzanne Hall today (but not Oscar :( )
<icarito>
walterbender, excellent, what a shame about oscar
<icarito>
has the meeting started yet?
<walterbender_>
icarito: Suzanne wants to definitely do something with Maureen Orth
<walterbender_>
icarito: waiting for quorum (again)
<icarito>
walterbender, dirakx and I were discussing yesterday about what the next steps would be
<walterbender_>
cjb is on holiday, I believe
<walterbender_>
not sure about everyone else...
<walterbender_>
bernie has been spending his time in the FSF colo trying to get their servers stablized :P
<icarito>
bernie is my hero
<icarito>
:-)
<walterbender_>
icarito: we should come up with a short list of tangible projects and perhaps run them past Maureen before getting back to Suzanne
<walterbender_>
haven't heard from mel or adam or aleksey
<icarito>
walterbender, dirakx do we have maybe a contact with maureen orth?
<walterbender_>
could be a bit too ambitious to have scheduled this meeting on the 23rd of December :)
<walterbender_>
while we are waiting, a couple of other things going on:
<walterbender_>
(1) the Sugar Labs Slipstream cycling team seems to be happening... it is being thus referred to in the cycling press
<walterbender_>
I will be meeting with them in late January/early Feb. to discuss details of how we may leverage their presence to promote Sugar
<walterbender_>
(2) I will be going to CES to talk with a couple of OEMs about Sugar... stay tuned
<CanoeBerry>
slow day / mad day, hi all!
<icarito>
okay we are planing a Somos Azucar meeting for next tuesday
<walterbender_>
(3) I have been talking with an educator at Johns Hopkins about how we might add some interesting metrics into the Journal... again, stay tuned
dirakx	reading backlog.
<walterbender_>
icarito: maybe I can join the Tuesday meeting
<walterbender_>
hi CanoeBerry
<icarito>
walterbender, that would be great we will be holding it via IRC I think but we are thinking about opening a voice channel also
<icarito>
walterbender, it will be held at 10AM EST tuesday 28th
<walterbender_>
icarito: what channel?
<CanoeBerry>
our olpcMAP Sprint's unreleased Peru film will be 5PM Tues Dec 28:
<CanoeBerry>
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/OlpcMAP#Schedule
<icarito>
walterbender, i forgot to specify - #sugar-meeting would be the easiest i think
<icarito>
hello CanoeBerry
<SeanDaly>
hi everyone
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, tell us more about this Peru film
<icarito>
hi SeanDaly
<CanoeBerry>
icarito: read above, it's unreleased so your guess is as good as mine :)
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: did you see the Sugar Labs Slipstream news today?
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: nothing remarkable except that they are now referring to the team as SL Slipstream :)
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, i was confused by your calling it "our...film"
<walterbender_>
CanoeBerry: streaming?
<CanoeBerry>
(
http://vimeo.com/12642469
represents a very early draft of Audubon Dougherty's work)
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, ah yes we heard from his work
<CanoeBerry>
No streaming plans to date. Am not even sure Audubon's plans around releasing/selling her film she's now working hard on finalizing :)
<CanoeBerry>
Will ask.
<SeanDaly>
walterbender: no missed that
<SeanDaly>
it's cool
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly:
http://nyvelocity.com/content/features/2010/gavi-epstein-signs-sugar-labs
:)
<SeanDaly>
and:
http://velocitynation.com/content/features/2010/sugar-labs-sponsor-slipstream-conti-team
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: still waiting to see the jersey...
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly:
http://www.velonation.com/News/ID/6564/Sugar-Labs-to-back-Garmin-Cervelos-development-team-in-unique-arrangement.aspx
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: maybe they need some design help?
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: I sent them the artwork from the wiki...
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: great
<walterbender_>
seems we won't have a quorum. I am guessing the week between Christmas and New Years is a wash too
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: this "reverse sponsorship" approach is very innovative
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, perhaps you'd like to promote the map making sprint in the spanish speaking lists?
<CanoeBerry>
Great!
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: this all happened at that talk I gave in Paris a couple of months back... too bad we didn't connect on that trip
<CanoeBerry>
icarito: tomorrow i'll have much better outreach materials ready too, even if my Spanish is non-existent very sadly :)
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, I could translate some info if you tell me what
<CanoeBerry>
Awesome
<walterbender_>
anything else we should discuss today (informally) as a group?
<icarito>
no more slobs present? should start counting absences?
<CanoeBerry>
So far supervolunteer Marina has done all the outreach -- tonight I'll juice it up a few notehcs.
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: yes well no crying over spilt milk :D
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, be sure to contact with the rest of the community in Sur / SL we are here to help
<walterbender_>
(I am probably in Las Vegas on the 6th)
<walterbender_>
so maybe we don't meet again until the 13th???
<walterbender_>
Not sure there is any pressing business, just lots to talk about
<CanoeBerry>
Peru topic while we're on it: what physical meetups are poss?
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: sponsorship thing could have PR...
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: actually there is a marketing issue which needs attention
<walterbender_>
CanoeBerry: icarito and I have been in discussion with the Ministry about a Sugar Camp in Feb. in Lima
<CanoeBerry>
Feb is soon!
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: ???
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: CES
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: I will be there, probably for just one day
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, actually feb is too soon for me
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: it's possible OLPC and/or Marvell will announce update on tablets
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: I mentioned to Rodrigo that if that happens, it's important the message get out that XOs are still going strong & will continue
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: I don't know... Ed and/or Reuben may know
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, you can join our all volunteer meeting on Tuesday 10AM if you wish
<CanoeBerry>
What's the topic roughly?
<CanoeBerry>
Thanks!
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, we want to talk about our services portfolio especially
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: I think any announcement would be staged... with mention of the 1.75 machine as a stepping stone. 1.75 is looking good
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: I could liaise with Jackie who would know... we just need to avoid tech journalists who may deduce that XO-1.x (& Sugar with it) on the way out if tablets come in
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: if you are in CES that would be the day to do PR ;-)
<walterbender_>
AFAIK, no announcement is planned, but I will ask
<SeanDaly>
ok thanks
<cjb>
oops, had time zone confusion, apologies.
<walterbender_>
cjb: the West Coast operates on its own time :)
<walterbender_>
we do have a quorum, if it still makes sense to meet
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: where did we get Sugar USB sticks made last time? I really to make some more...
<cjb>
worried I'm going to have to disappear soon, so perhaps better not. last minute xmas preparation :)
<cjb>
SeanDaly: walterbender_: I'm not aware of any CES announcements from our end either
<walterbender_>
cjb: tis the season...
walterbender_	hasn't gotten his wife a present yet :P
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: I have all that info but that supplier perhaps not best choice; was expensive (over $8/stick), printing not great, high defect rate on sticks (+5%), lanyards did not fit. However, to be fair it was a rush job for them and a small lot (100 sticks)
<walterbender_>
so, shall we plan to meet again next week or the 13th? (the 6th doesn't work for me).
SeanDaly	suggests for wife... French perfume :D :D
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: if you or anyone else has recommendations, please let me know
<walterbender_>
SeanDaly: I meant for USB sticks, not a present for me wife :)
<cjb>
walterbender_: I think thurs 30th works for me
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: hee hee
<cjb>
I'm flying back on the 28th, so I'll be home
<icarito>
13th works for me better
<walterbender_>
maybe another informal gathering on the 28th and the next official meeting on the 13th?
<SeanDaly>
walterbender_: Yes I can assist with USB sticks... let's not forget OnDisk too
<walterbender_>
and I will solicit reports from the teams and labs
<CanoeBerry>
next week will be one non-stop community meeting, for those who missed the news :)
<CanoeBerry>
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/OlpcMAP#Schedule
<SeanDaly>
http://on-disk.com/
<CanoeBerry>
Tue/Wed Dec 28-29 especially.
<cjb>
walterbender_: maybe we should organise via mail
<walterbender_>
+1
<icarito>
walterbender, yes an informal meeting on the 28 would work for us, what time do you think?
cjb	can't do 28th, will be on a plane.
<CanoeBerry>
10am Tue 28th will be in Spanish only??
<CanoeBerry>
10am EST?
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, sorry yes
<CanoeBerry>
:)
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, maybe its not the best meeting to visit yet
<CanoeBerry>
I'll ask any Spanish-speakers arriving Cambridge/OLPC if they might jump in.
<icarito>
CanoeBerry, actually we plan to work on our strategic plan so perhaps its not the best meeting to join at the moment
<icarito>
but thanks
<CanoeBerry>
Sure, got it.
<CanoeBerry>
walterbender: are you able to join our film and/or huge volunteer dinner Tue night?
<CanoeBerry>
(Film 5pm, Royal East 7pm)
<icarito>
i'll have to get going now
<walterbender_>
OK...
<jelkner>
walterbender_: i've got to run. let mike and i know when you're coming to dc.
<JT4sugar>
walterbender, Will get you info for State Dept on English initiatives with refugee cities Fargo,ND and North Dakota State along with Lansing,MI and Michigan State on Sunday 26th
<SeanDaly>
hi JT4sugar
<walterbender_>
JT4sugar: great. I already gave them a heads up...
<JT4sugar>
SeanDaly, Hi Sean
<JT4sugar>
walterbender, Great
<icarito>
walterbender, will contact maureen orth from sugar labs colombia, keep you on the loop
<walterbender_>
icarito: +1
<icarito>
goodbye for now
<CanoeBerry>
bye all!
<CanoeBerry>
merry everything :)
<icarito>
yes merry christmas everyone!
<SeanDaly>
merry merry
<icarito>
walterbender, good luck with wife's gift
<JT4sugar>
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to all!
<SeanDaly>
JT4sugar: will use time off in the coming week to prepare for marketing restart...
<JT4sugar>
SeanDaly, Pretty free next week if you would like to skype
<walterbender_>
thanks all... happy holidays...
<SeanDaly>
JT4sugar: that's a plan... if internet access where I'm going :D
<SeanDaly>
another snowy mountain
<JT4sugar>
SeanDaly, Let me know
<SeanDaly>
JT4sugar: ok will do!