Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2021-03-17
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2021-03-17
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
SLOB Meeting -- March 17, 2021
2
Topics
2.1
Finances
2.2
Ombudsman
2.3
SFC
2.4
GSoD
2.5
Next Meeting
2.6
Log
SLOB Meeting -- March 17, 2021
Attending: Walter, Lionel, Perrie, MrBios, Ibiam
From the community: Samson, srevinsaju
Topics
Finances
No transactions as of yet in 2021
Ombudsman
Nothing to report.
Walter still needs to write some text to make it more obvious in our Code of Conduct that we have an ombudsman.
SFC
Claudia was unavailable
GSoD
Samson is working on the proposal, due 26 March. Walter met with Samson after the meeting to discuss details of a Music Blocks documentation project for teachers might look like.
Next Meeting
31 March 2021
Log
walterbender: hello everyone

Alex Perez: heyo

walterbender: We have a SLOB meeting beginning in 5 minutes

Samson Goddy: hello all

walterbender: hi Alex Perez: Samson Goddy
Alex Perez: you get the USB sticks?

Samson Goddy: Hello walterbender

Alex Perez: walterbender: I did, thanks

walterbender: good to hear... enough to keep you supplied for a few weeks? I spoke with Quidam yesterday... we still plan to do the Triquel SoaS mass mailing
hopefully this summer

* walterbender wonders if we have a quorum

llaske_: Hi all

walterbender: hi llaske_ Claudia will be late... anyone hear from Jui or Ibiam or Perrie?

Alex Perez: nope

walterbender: Lets wait a couple of more minutes

while we are waiting... Samson Goddy do you have any updates re Season of Docs?

perrieee: Hello

walterbender: HI perrieee We have a quorum so we should begin the meeting.

Samson Goddy: Yes, sorry I was having some connection issues

perrieee: Sorry I‚Äôm late ... connection issues

walterbender: Let's get the boilerplate items taken care of first... nothing new re finances or the ombudsman but I do need to add the promised language re ombudsman to Sugar Docs and Community Docs. Re GSoC, anything to report? perrieee llaske_¬†?? Have you invited mentors? (I've not seen an invite :P )

llaske_: We‚Äôve been accepted

Sumit Srivastava: Hi all

llaske_: We don‚Äôt have invited mentor yet

walterbender: I guess I am not remembering the process... I though we did that at this stage.

llaske_: Yes we could but we have time

walterbender: Anything the community should be doing to help right now?

llaske_: Answer to questions of new contributors

walterbender: OK... that I think we are doing...

llaske_: Yes üòä

Sumit Srivastava: Hi all, genuine question: Due to some things that I'm working on I might not be able to devote as much time to GSoC as a mentor as I used to devote in the past few years. Also, I am very excited by the musicblocks project ideasthat have been listed this summer. Like, really excited. Should I be a mentor or not?

walterbender: If you don't have time, then I suggest not. But maybe you could do some code contributions

llaske_: Is there a co mentor on your project¬†?

Sumit Srivastava: Yes, Walter and Anindya are mentoring almost all Musicblocks projects

Samson Goddy: For some reason, I keep getting disconnected

walterbender: ultimately the co-mentors depend on the proposals... what is in the git repo is just project ideas

Alex Perez: The public beta of Fedora 34 should happen next Tuesday, the 23rd. It'd be good to get some testing of Sugar on a Stick once that happens. it got punted out a week (this week) due to some blockers

walterbender: but we will definitely have daily meetings of everyone working on Music Blocks... you are welcome to join in
Alex Perez: +1
Alex Perez: maybe a heads up to sugar dev when it is ready for testing?

Alex Perez: yep, and soas@

walterbender: any other GSoC business?

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Hi Everyone. Sorry I'm late.

llaske_: That‚Äôs all on my side

walterbender: Chihurumnaya Ibiam: please read the backlog... I'd like to discuss Libreplanet Both Devin and I are presenting at Libreplanet this weekend, but on non-Sugar projects üòõ

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Opened a review request for the rename of sugar-visualmatch to sugar-dimensions earlier today.

Sumit Srivastava: Haven't seen Devin mentoring yet. Will he be mentoring?

walterbender: Yes...

Alex Perez: It might not get approved this close to beta

walterbender: He is helping with the Music Blocks refactoring anyway, the question is, should we have a virtual Sugar Labs booth at Libreplanet? Devin and I could man the booth on Sunday, but not on Saturday

Alex Perez: with no time for planning, I'm not sure it's worth the effort. I can't help

walterbender: I think we need to have some presence both days if we do it.

Sumit Srivastava: Yes, I keep reading the codebase and issues and discussions from time to time. The work is going pretty awesome.

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Let's see, the issue is here https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1939978. 1939978 ‚Äì Review Request: sugar-visualmatch - Pattern matching game Login [x] Log in using an account from: Fedora Account System Red Hat Associate Red Hat Customer Or login using a Red Hat Bugzilla account Forgot Password

walterbender: anyway, the question is, should we have a virtual Sugar Labs booth at Libreplanet? I think we should.

walterbender: I think it doesn't need a lot of planning... just someone there to answer questions, give demos... Devin and I could man the booth on Sunday, but not on Saturday

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Haven't checked any details but would manning the booth be all day or during specific hours?

walterbender: We need to cover roughly 10-5 EST on Saturday but it could be tag-team We could demo Sugarizer, the flatpack activities, Music Blocks, etc.

Alex Perez: demoing Sugar remotely seems like....a bitch

Samson Goddy: I have done that before, sort of

walterbender: The rooms will be Jitsi... it is trivial to share a browser window, so Music Blocks and Sugarizer are a walk in the park. If you boot with X11 instead of Wayland then the desktop works fine too...  so I don't think it is so difficult.

Sumit Srivastava: Sugar on a virtual machine? a VM would work too

Samson Goddy: yes

Sumit Srivastava: And then screen capture on Jitsi

* walterbender uses Jitsi for Music Blocks classes every Saturday, which is why I cannot man the booth Any volunteers? 14UTC-21UTC

Samson Goddy: I can come in

llaske_: I can‚Äôt on my side

Sumit Srivastava: Maybe instead of a single person manning, it could be distributed.

Samson Goddy: But not sure if I can do all time

Alex Perez: I am unable to commit, as previously mentioned

Samson Goddy: Yes, multiple people will be better.

walterbender: Sumit Srivastava: yes... I don't expect 1 person to do the entire time and the more the merrier But I don't want to commit if we cannot commit to being in the room     We need to cover roughly 10-5 EST on Saturday but it could be tag-team

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I'm guessing it's AM.

Alex Perez: if we can't get critical mass, I'd rather we not request a presence/room

Sumit Srivastava: 1 hour from my side

walterbender: I just confirmed my math: 10am in Boston == 14UTC Alex Perez: I agree... hence my raising it here

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I might not be able to at that time. If I can, I'll be sure to join in.

walterbender: seems we don't have enough people

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I think I can do it. I'll be available at that time on Saturday.

Samson Goddy: I wanna commit, but not sure how long I can commit as power at my new place is crazy these days I haven't invested in backup power yet, just moved in

Samson Goddy: In terms of my internet connectivity at my apartment

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Samson's message got forwarded, typo.

Sumit Srivastava: Chihurumnaya Ibiam for all of 14utc to 21utc?

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: Nope, not all of 14UTC till 21UTC. Might be available from 14UTC till 17UTC. I won't be able to do the latter part, but the earlier hour might be doable for me.

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I might be able to do the later part but it all depends on electricity here and I don't trust that we'll have electricity at that time.

Sumit Srivastava: Seems like we don't have enough conviction to be able to pull off the full Saturday

walterbender: I will see if I can arrange a Sunday-only booth. I'll let you all know of the decision and of course, anyone available on Sunday should join the fun. Next up Samson Goddy: anything we need to know/do re Season of Docs?

Samson Goddy: Yes, I am thinking because of time, I am proposing we meet over zoom or any good alternative to flesh everything out.  https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/org-proposal-template Creating the organization proposal  |  Season of Docs - Google Developers Season of Docs Language English Bahasa Indonesia Deutsch Espa√±ol Fran√ßais Portugu√™s ‚Äì Brasil –†—É—Å—Å–∫–∏–π This is what is important to Google the proposal from SL We need to have something before March 26th

llaske_: I‚Äôm worry about the cost. Can we spend the budget need

Samson Goddy: Can you throw more light? llaske_

llaske_: GSoC cost nothing How much GSoD will cost us?

Sumit Srivastava: GSoD gives grants to organisation Which will be used to pay the writer

Samson Goddy: llaske_: Season of Docs is like GSoD but just that we hire someone to write for us as part of Google grant via Open Collectove *Collective All we need to do is tell Google how much it will cost and send in a scope

llaske_: May be I misunderstood. I thought we need to pay for that

Samson Goddy: I see from 6k up to 15k USD No, llaske_ Google is paying in a grant form

llaske_: Ah okay sorry

walterbender: Is anything written up yet?

Samson Goddy: That is what I am proposing for us to jump on a call or a separate meeting for a scope of work

walterbender: I have time for a quick call right after this meeting, but I have zero time to do any writing between now and the 26th. Maybe some copy-editing I have a good idea of what Music Blocks needs but not a very solid idea for anything else.

Samson Goddy: Okay great, I can create a link for a call, anyone interested to meet? Or maybe later this week? because of time for others? The aim of this call is ideas brainstorming Which could focus on a tool like MB, Sugar and Sugarizer

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I can meet later this week but not right after this call.

walterbender: Samson Goddy: can at least you and I talk right after the meeting? I cannot meet later this week.

Samson Goddy: Yes

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: This meeting rather.

Samson Goddy: walterbender: I am available

walterbender: any other Sugar Labs business for now? other topics?

llaske_: Nope

walterbender: motion to adjourn

llaske_: +1

Alex Perez: +1

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I sent an email earlier to SLOBs about my contract.

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: I sent an email earlier to SLOBs about my contract. Did anyone take a look at the notes??

walterbender: I didn't look yet. Chihurumnaya Ibiam: since I was not on SLOB at the time, I don't think I ever saw the original contract. But let's plan to bring this up as the first topic of discussion next time?

Alex Perez: agreed. walterbender: presumably it's in the slob ML archive

* walterbender will look

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: The other part in the email might need a motion though, although it needs to be discussed first.

walterbender: If there is nothing else, then let's end the meeting. Thanks everyone. I'll write up minutes for the wiki and send an update re LibrePlanet and my discussion with Samson. Chihurumnaya Ibiam my apologies that we did not get to your topic yet.

walterbender: But let's plan to bring this up as the first topic of discussion next time? Okay.

Chihurumnaya Ibiam: It's okay.

walterbender: motion to adjourn

+1.