Title: Oversight Board/2008/Meeting Minutes-2008-09-19
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2008/Meeting_Minutes-2008-09-19
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversight Board Meeting Minutes 2008-09-19
Logs
Oversight Board/2008/Log-2008-09-19
Attending
walter, erikos, eben, cms, gregdek, bernie, tomeu, marcopg, dfarning, dirakx
Administrative
(Software Freedom Conservancy) SFC.
The final agreement between Sugar Labs and the SFC has been approved; the only outstanding issue is getting the agreement signed by the oversight board. Our SFC contact is karen AT softwarefreedom.org
Committee reports
Membership
David reported on the discussions on IAEPlistp about some of the purposes and organizational structures of various FLOSS projects. We progressed well until we came to the issue of an individual contributor agreement: the point of contention was the value of risk mitigation vs. the cost of implementing the agreement. We agreed to seek guidance from SFC before moving forward.
David also proposed that we have an executive director (ED) position at Sugar Labs. There was consensus to do this; David agreed lead a discussion of some of the details and report back at the next meeting on matters such as who appoints/elects the ED, t; whom the ED reports; and how we change the ED.
Testing
Simon reported on
the creation of the BugSquad
. We discussed ways to exploit the opportunity to leverage the enthusiasm and on-the-ground experience of the teacher in Uruguay and Peru. Rafael volunteered to do outreach on OLPC-sur.
Events
Greg reiterated the need to create an event team. He proposed that the next event be tied to the next FUDCon meeting, which is in Boston in December. We discussed generating a list of other possible venues, which Rafael has begun on the
deployment page
.
Deployment
Rafael described the work that has gone into the
deployment team
pages, including some new documentation efforts. We will be holding a documentation sprint in Lima a the end of next month.
Infrastructure
Bernie reminded us of the pressing need for another server. We agreed not to force the issue of migrating services off of laptop.org, but will set up a git server on sugarlabs.org in order to host new projects and shakedown any problems with the process/infrastructure.
Funding opportunities
Tomeu raised the issue of need for some short-term contractor help. We then discussed various funding approaches, most of which will take some time to materialize:
establishing a regional development teams with a combination of funding from local sources and international programs such as USAID
general funding from industry â€“ we need to establish the ground rules and cost structures
funding for targeted development for special projects, e.g., Sugar for the elderly; Sugar for mobile, etc.
foundations
We also discussed the idea of members dues, but reached consensus that it wasn't a good idea at this stage
Sugar Labs logo
Christian enthralled us with his new
Marketing Team/Logo
. We agreed to incorporate it into the wiki design and discussed setting up landing site for sugarlabs.org which would play off the color scheme dynamically.
Trademarks
Walter agreed to discuss details regarding protecting the logo and name with the SFC
PR
Walter mentioned some preliminary discussions with a PR firm that may be able to help us
pro bono
The next meeting will be in two weeks, 3 October 2008.