Title: Oversight Board/2009/Meeting Log-2009-11-13
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2009/Meeting_Log-2009-11-13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversight Board Meeting Log 2009-11-13
<walterbender>
FWIW, I may be a few minutes late to the SLOBs meeting. The conference is scheduled to end at 4, but it is running late. (I am the last talk.)
<walterbender>
But please get started without me.
|<--	sdziallas has left freenode ("Ex-Chat")
<walterbender>
I will definitely by about 15 - 20 minutes late.
-->|	SeanDaly (n=chatzill@static-241102.xdsl.raiffeisen.net) has joined #sugar-meeting
<cjb>
morning.
<tomeu>
hi all
<SeanDaly>
hi Sean here
<tomeu>
SeanDaly: is walterbender speaking now?
<SeanDaly>
I am in SFScon auditorium, Walter is up next
tomeu	is hidden in a hole coding
<SeanDaly>
Federico is onstage now re Zeitgeist
<walterbender>
looks like I am not up next... so I can start meeting and just break when I have to get on stage
SeanDaly	a bit nervous about getting my plane
<walterbender>
SeanDaly: the airport is 10 minutes away
<walterbender>
shall we have a quick meeting?
<SeanDaly>
walterbender: my brain says no problem, my heart says 900 roros if I miss it
<walterbender>
OK. with me.
<cjb>
bernie: ping
<cjb>
someone able to poke Adam?
<walterbender>
mel cannot join us. nor Adam
<tomeu>
cjb: adam is traveling now
<cjb>
oh, ok
<tomeu>
fortunately, they can vote by email later
<tomeu>
ok, should I go through the agenda items?
<cjb>
sure
<walterbender>
#start-meeting
<SeanDaly>
yes pls
<walterbender>
#topic cjb report on email list
<cjb>
walterbender: no hyphen
<walterbender>
#startmeeting
<meeting>
Meeting started at 10:05 UTC. The chair is walterbender.
<meeting>
Commands Available: #TOPIC, #IDEA, #ACTION, #AGREED, #LINK
<walterbender>
#topic email list
<cjb>
ok, here's what I was able to come up with, don't know if anyone will like it :)
<cjb>
a) new list: slobs-members@. goes only to slobs.
bernie	waves
<walterbender>
ciao bernardo
SeanDaly	hi bernie
<walterbender>
cjb: is there a b) ?
<cjb>
yes, moment
<bernie>
cjb: I have a counter-proposal: creating a teams@ list for all team leaders and slobs, and unsubscribing non-slobs from slobs@
<cjb>
bernie: wait for me to finish, though.
walterbender	is waiting for part b
<cjb>
b) slobs@ becomes the proper list for SLOBS business.
<cjb>
.. SLOBS business includes questions from the community about policy ..
<walterbender>
cjb: for adding agenda items...
<cjb>
yeah!
<walterbender>
an open list, presumably
<walterbender>
seems orthogonal to Bernie's suggestion
<SeanDaly>
I thought we had said an agenda proposal went thru a SLOB?
<cjb>
yes. and, I think most of the mail currently on slobs@ can stay on that open list
tomeu	doesn't understand what team leaders have to do in all this
<cjb>
not everyone will want to subscribe to it
<cjb>
most of it will be organizational minutia, after all
SeanDaly	also would hesitate to add team leader layer...
<walterbender>
cjb: I guess the only question is whether we couldn't just use iaep for the same purpose
<cjb>
walterbender: only for the reason I just gave
<bernie>
tomeu, SeanDaly: currently, we have almost all team leaders subscribed to slobs@. and it helps for coordination.
<tomeu>
bernie: how it helps to coordinate anything?
<cjb>
there may be people who want to read iaep@ and don't want to read boring financial details or policy questions
<SeanDaly>
bernie: ok but they are all on IAEP too, no?
<walterbender>
I am genrally in favor of fewer lists and more sunject-line tags
<SeanDaly>
maybe iaep with a subject slobs business?
<walterbender>
^sun^sub
<walterbender>
[SLOBS]
<bernie>
SeanDaly: teams@ would not be open. it would be the same of the current slobs@, in my mind.
SeanDaly	imagines Mel reacting to phrase "would not be open" ;-)
<walterbender>
bernie: what team business needs to be private? hypathetical, pelase>
<walterbender>
please?
<tomeu>
bernie: team coordinators are chosen by a criteria that is not too related to their suitability to be aware of confidential matters
<cjb>
SeanDaly: we should probably ask the people on iaep whether they'd like that or not, if we go this route
<tomeu>
cjb: do you think we have sent too much administrative stuff already?
<SeanDaly>
cjb: I certainly agree governance minutiae boring for many, but then again, the day a complaint about e.g. finances comes in, financial discussions clear
<cjb>
tomeu: to iaep? no
-->|	andresambrois (n=aa@r190-135-149-15.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy) has joined #sugar-meeting
<cjb>
tomeu: but I'm talking about moving ~80% of SLOBs list traffic there
<cjb>
and it seems like that would be too much
<tomeu>
don't think we have much traffic in slobs
<SeanDaly>
slobs fairly low-volume in my view
<cjb>
I guess that's true
<tomeu>
also, while some admin stuff could be boring, the discussions that could ensure could be very interesting
<walterbender>
cjb: the original motivation for my request for a private list was to keep the slobs traffic lower
<tomeu>
and chances are people would forget to forward to iaep and keep the discussion there
<cjb>
walterbender: could you elaborate?
<cjb>
you mean, keep the slobs@ traffic lower?
<walterbender>
cjb: it is easy to ignore email with suitable [BORING SLOBS BUSINESS] subject tags :)
<walterbender>
cjb: less slobs traffic and less private list traffic both
<cjb>
ok
<cjb>
so, perhaps we have a MOTION
<walterbender>
Anyway, I think we are really trying to decide between a new list and using [TAGS] on iaep
<tomeu>
tags++
<cjb>
MOTION: close the slobs@ list to just SLOBs, move current slobs@ traffic to iaep@ with a [SLOBS] subject line tag where at all possible
<walterbender>
cjb: second
<walterbender>
discussion?
tomeu	likes that motion as-is
<cjb>
we'll have to explain this well. people will hear the "you can't be on slobs@ part" and think it's a negative for transparency.
<cjb>
s/ part"/" part/
<SeanDaly>
discussion: we need to explain policy to bootees
<cjb>
bootees?
<walterbender>
cjb: I'll try to explain it (and take the heat)
<SeanDaly>
bootee: somebody removed from list
<cjb>
oh :)
<walterbender>
any more discussion?
SeanDaly	not from me
<cjb>
I'm interested in what Mel and Adam think
<walterbender>
cjb: me too. we will get their votes.
<walterbender>
(by email withing 96 hours?)
<cjb>
the problem with all voting now is that we'll pass it without them, and then they'll point out the giant flaw in our strategy :)
<walterbender>
(I hope my talk goes better than my typing)
<cjb>
would people be opposed to having all of us postpone our vote until they've had a chance to join in the discussion?
<walterbender>
cjb: I am fine with it.
<SeanDaly>
or, could be amended
<cjb>
excellent. okay, I'd like to do that.
<walterbender>
we can vote on it first thing next week...
<cjb>
shall we move on for now, then, with that MOTION suitably transcribed?
<walterbender>
OK.
<SeanDaly>
ok
<walterbender>
#task write up the motion with the minutes
<walterbender>
next topic?
<walterbender>
#topic lists for teams
<walterbender>
bernie: can you explain a bit more?
<walterbender>
bernie: ping?
<walterbender>
friends, I am going to be called to the podium in a moment and Sean will need to take off.
<walterbender>
can I propose a #task?
<cjb>
ok. maybe that's our short meeting. :)
<cjb>
sure
<walterbender>
#task: bernie: write a note about your proposal
|<--	andresambrois has left freenode (Remote closed the connection)
<walterbender>
#task: carlo has a nice document re the next topic I can circulate (to IAEP with suitable [TAG] when I get back to Boston
<walterbender>
#task: I'll bug the DP for closure.
<walterbender>
end meeting?
<tomeu>
ok with me
<SeanDaly>
ok with me
tomeu	goes listen to the talk
<walterbender>
Sorry about the awkward timing...
<cjb>
np
<walterbender>
the conference gods weren't cooperating :(
SeanDaly	knows how much "fun" it is to miss a plane
<walterbender>
thanks for coming everyone. Same time next week.
<SeanDaly>
:-)
<walterbender>
SeanDaly: I'll tell you a Seymour/Piaget story some time :)
<walterbender>
ok.
<walterbender>
#endmeeting
<meeting>
Meeting finished at 10:29.
<meeting>
Logs available at
http://meeting.laptop.org/